Website URL: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/

Links Visited:
/undergraduate/science/, /undergraduate/science/accelerated-bachelor-graduate-degree-programs/, /undergraduate/science/biology/, /undergraduate/science/biology/biology-bs/, /undergraduate/science/biology/biology-english-bs/, /undergraduate/science/biology/biology-mathematics-bs/, /undergraduate/science/biology/biology-minor/, /undergraduate/science/biology/biology-political-science-bs/, /undergraduate/science/biology/cell-molecular-biology-bs/, /undergraduate/science/biology/cell-molecular-biology-minor/, /undergraduate/science/biology/science-writing-minor/, /undergraduate/science/chemistry-chemical-biology/, /undergraduate/science/chemistry-chemical-biology/chemistry-bs/, /undergraduate/science/chemistry-chemical-biology/chemistry-minor/, /undergraduate/science/chemistry-chemical-biology/environmental-chemistry-minor/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/behavioral-neuroscience-bs/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/behavioral-neuroscience-design-bs/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/behavioral-neuroscience-minor/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/behavioral-neuroscience-philosophy-bs/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/biochemistry-bs/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/biochemistry-minor/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/interdisciplinary-studies-bs/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-bs/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-communication-studies-ba/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-cultural-anthropology-bs/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-english-ba/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-minor/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-psychology-bs/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-speech-language-pathology-bs/, /undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/network-science-minor/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/ecology-evolutionary-biology-bs/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/ecology-evolutionary-biology-minor/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-studies-ba/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-studies-history-ba/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-studies-international-affairs-ba/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-studies-minor/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-studies-philosophy-ba/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-studies-political-science-ba/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-sustainability-sciences-bs/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-sustainability-sciences-chemistry-bs/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-sustainability-sciences-economics-bs/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-sustainability-sciences-journalism-bs/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-sustainability-sciences-landscape-architecture-bs/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-sustainability-sciences-minor/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/geosciences-minor/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/marine-biology-bs/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/marine-biology-three-seas/, /undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/marine-sciences-minor/, /undergraduate/science/mathematics/, /undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-ba/, /undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-bs/, /undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-business-administration-bs/, /undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-minor/, /undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-philosophy-bs/, /undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-physics-bs/, /undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-political-science-bs/, /undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-psychology-bs/, /undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-sociology-bs/, /undergraduate/science/physics/, /undergraduate/science/physics/applied-physics-bs/, /undergraduate/science/physics/astrophysics-minor/, /undergraduate/science/physics/biomedical-physics-bs/, /undergraduate/science/physics/physics-bs/, /undergraduate/science/physics/physics-minor/, /undergraduate/science/physics/physics-music-bs/, /undergraduate/science/physics/physics-philosophy-bs/, /undergraduate/science/psychology/, /undergraduate/science/psychology/psychology-bs/, /undergraduate/science/psychology/psychology-design-bs/, /undergraduate/science/psychology/psychology-minor/, /undergraduate/science/psychology/psychology-music-bs/, /undergraduate/science/psychology/psychology-theatre-bs/

Total Links: 74

Content:
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/
Hazel Sive, PhD, Dean
Brent D. Nelson, PhD, Senior Associate Dean, Undergraduate Affairs
Rachelle Reisberg, Assistant Dean, Undergraduate Curriculum and Students
Dean’s Office
617.373.5085
cos@northeastern.edu
Student Services Office
617.373.4475
COSAdvising@northeastern.edu
The College of Science offers instructional programs that are at the forefront of discovery, invention, and innovation in the physical sciences, life sciences, linguistics, and mathematics. Our programs are designed to give students a deep understanding and hands-on experience in traditional and emerging interdisciplinary fields such as chemical biology, cognition and neuroscience, marine science, biochemistry, nanoscience, and network science.
The college places a strong emphasis on the experiential learning model and seeks to provide students with a wide array of opportunities to explore innovative, interdisciplinary collaborations through cooperative educational work assignments, service-learning, undergraduate research, internships, study-abroad programs, and active participation in our award-winning student chapters of professional associations. The college seeks to provide students with the best possible foundation for achieving their goals, whether they seek to attend graduate school, professional school, or immediately pursue a career upon graduation.
The college offers Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science, and Bachelor of Science/Master of Science (PlusOne programs) degrees in a number of majors and emphasizes the value of a solid general education through NUpath. Students may choose a four- or five-year experiential learning plan in most programs. Either plan offers co-op opportunities, often in an area related to the student’s chosen academic area.
PlusOne Programs
Many programs and departments offer academically strong students the option of obtaining their BS and MS degree in five years.
College Requirements
All students in the College of Science must successfully complete the university requirements of NUpath. In addition, students pursuing a Bachelor of Arts degree must fulfill the BA requirements.
Academic Advising
The College of Science has an academic advising system that consists of professional advisors and faculty advisors located in the college’s department and program offices. Detailed advising information is available on the college website. PreMed and PreHealth Advising, as well as Pre-Law Advising, are also available.
Graduation Clearance Process
Students in the College of Science are required to meet with an academic advisor in the College of Science to determine their remaining graduation requirements. This should be completed in the junior year to ensure ample time to complete any outstanding requirements.
Academic Progression Standards
In addition to meeting university progression standards, it is expected that full-time science students enroll in four (3- or 4-credit) courses with appropriate labs and recitations and successfully complete at least 12 semester hours each academic semester with an acceptable grade-point average as noted below.
Students are only eligible for an exception to this course load requirement in one of the following circumstances:
- Students in their final semester with less than 12 semester hours needed to meet all program requirements are eligible for a reduced course load. Students are required to request this with their academic advisor before the start of their final semester.
- Students who have been approved for reduced course load accommodation after proper evaluation by Disability Access Services. This is not evaluated or approved by a students’ academic advisor.
Pass/fail courses are restricted to electives outside of the major, minor, and NUpath requirements.
Graduation Requirements
A minimum cumulative GPA requirement of 2.000 in major courses and a minimum cumulative GPA requirement of 2.000 overall are required for graduation. Note: The university requires a minimum grade of C for First-Year Writing and Advanced Writing requirements.
Criteria for Academic Probation
Full-time students in the College of Science will be placed on academic probation effective for the following academic semester for any of the reasons noted below. A notation of the academic probation action will appear on the internal record but not on the permanent transcript.
First-year Students:
- Not maintaining a semester GPA of at least a 1.800 at the end of each full-term semester (fall, spring) of the first-year curriculum
- Not earning at least 12 semester hours at the end of each fall and spring semester of the first-year curriculum
Upperclass and Transfer Students:
- Not earning at least 12 semester hours in the academic full-term semester (fall, spring) just completed
- Not maintaining an overall cumulative GPA of at least 2.000 at the end of each full-term academic semester (fall, spring)
Academic Dismissal from Major
Students can be dismissed from their major for not maintaining a GPA of at least a 2.000 in the major at the end of the second academic full-term semester of the curriculum and at the end of each full-term academic semester (fall, spring) thereafter. Students may also be dismissed from the major for accumulating three total outstanding course deficiencies (grades of F, I, W, NE, U, or missing grades) without successfully completing the course(s) in a later semester. Students may be dismissed by failure to follow a program of study approved by the student’s academic advisor. Students dismissed from their major, but otherwise eligible to remain an active student within the university, are allowed to continue within the College of Science as a transitional student for up to two semesters. If the student does not find a new major after two transitional semesters, they may be dismissed from the college.
Academic Dismissal from University
Students who remain on probation after two full-term academic semesters may be dismissed from the university. This action may appear on the transcript at the end of the second probationary semester. In addition, students who have below a 1.000 GPA or fewer than 4 earned semester hours in any semester or cumulatively may be dismissed at the discretion of their college. Students may appeal this decision to the Academic Standing Committee. International students must consult with an advisor in the Office of Global Services to discuss the impact of an academic dismissal as it relates to nonimmigrant visa status.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/accelerated-bachelor-graduate-degree-programs/
The College of Science offers a number of bachelor’s/graduate degree programs that allow students to accelerate the attainment of the graduate degree by applying graduate credits taken as an undergraduate toward both the undergraduate and graduate degrees. Degrees are earned sequentially, with the bachelor's degree attainment followed by coursework to complete the graduate degree. See additional information on accelerated bachelor/graduate degree programs.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/biology/
Bachelor of Science (BS)
- Biology
- Cell and Molecular Biology
- Biology and English
- Biology and Mathematics
- Biology and Political Science
- Computer Science and Biology
- Data Science and Biology
Minors
Accelerated Programs
Biology Courses
BIOL 1000. Biology at Northeastern. (1 Hour)
Introduces first-year students to the major and the field of biology and to the professional and academic resources available to students at Northeastern University; acquaints students with their faculty, advisors, and fellow students; provides an initial orientation to undergraduate research, cooperative education, and other experiential learning options; helps develop the academic skills necessary to succeed; provides grounding in the culture and values of the university community; and assists in interpersonal skill development—in short, familiarizes students with the resources and skills needed to become a successful university student.
BIOL 1107. Foundations of Biology. (4 Hours)
Introduces evolutionary principles, cellular structure and function, genetic transmission, energy pathways, and physiology. Covers current topics in biology and evaluates and discusses current scientific literature. Explores the interdisciplinary nature of biology. Offers students an opportunity to prepare for the topical inquiries in biology courses.
Corequisite(s): BIOL 1108
BIOL 1108. Lab for BIOL 1107. (1 Hour)
Accompanies BIOL1107. Includes various lab experiments that emphasize evolutionary principles, cellular structure and function, genetic transmission, energy pathways, and physiology.
Corequisite(s): BIOL 1107
BIOL 1111. General Biology 1. (4 Hours)
Explores basic principles of biology with a focus on those features shared by all living organisms and seen through the lens of evolutionary theory. Through lectures, readings and discussion, offers students an opportunity to understand how the scientific method has been and is used to address biological questions. Central topics include recent advances in cell anatomy and physiology, including the interplay between organelles, membrane transport, and cell-signaling; energy transfer through cells and through the biosphere; cellular reproduction and cancer; heredity and human genetic disorders; and protein synthesis and biotechnology. Explores the societal implications of such topics as biopharmaceuticals, ocean acidification, climate change, human diseases, epigenetics, cancer, and cloning.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
BIOL 1112. Lab for BIOL 1111. (1 Hour)
Accompanies BIOL 1111. Offers students an opportunity to collect quantitative data through hands-on experimentation as well as simulations. Data is analyzed statistically and presented in written form.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1111 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
BIOL 1113. General Biology 2. (4 Hours)
Continues BIOL 1111. Examines the evolution of structural and functional diversity of organisms; the integrative biology of multicellular organisms; and ecological relationships at the population, community, and ecosystem levels.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1107 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1111 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1115 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
BIOL 1114. Lab for BIOL 1113. (1 Hour)
Accompanies BIOL 1113. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1113 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 1141. Microbes and Society. (4 Hours)
Introduces the unseen world of microorganisms. Students analyze how the growth and behavior of this diverse group of organisms affect many aspects of human society including agriculture and food preparation; drug development and manufacture; liquid and solid waste management; genetic engineering; geochemical cycles; and health and disease.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
BIOL 1143. Biology and Society. (4 Hours)
Offers an overview of how biology weaves its way across a broad spectrum of complex societal issues. Introduces students to the biological mechanisms and processes responsible for genetic inheritance, energy transfer, evolution, and population dynamics, providing a framework within which students may critically interpret and discuss important biological information provided in public forums. Seeks to empower students to make informed choices at the policy and personal levels. Offers students an opportunity to acquire an understanding of the basic principles of biology and apply the scientific process to the analysis of contemporary issues. Using a thematic approach, covers a wide range of issues including the reemergence of plagues, biological weapons and security, the environment, and human health and wellness.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
BIOL 1147. The Human Organism. (4 Hours)
Introduces the structure and function of the human body. Emphasizes the principles of biological and physical science as they relate to life processes in health and disease.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
BIOL 1149. Biology of Human Reproduction. (4 Hours)
Studies sexual and reproductive function in the human male and female, that is, sexual development, coitus, fertilization, pregnancy, birth, and lactation. Discusses the methods of controlling fertility and sexually transmitted diseases. Analyzes factors affecting reproduction and sexuality in human population.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
BIOL 1153. Human Genome Editing: Science and Ethics. (4 Hours)
Designed to familiarize students with the basic process of human genome editing, including an overview of emerging technologies that enable this process. Explores both sides of the ongoing ethical debate, including the potential benefits and limitations of human genome editing, and ramifications for this clinical practice on society. Introduces the methodology for genetic editing, a historical overview of the science and clinical practice of gene editing, and a synopsis of the current regulatory status. Discusses the ethical implications of the utilization of genome editing in humans. Offers students an opportunity to evaluate the utilization of genetic editing to eradicate genetically inherited diseases, the potential to create designer babies, and the socioeconomic impacts of gene editing.
Attribute(s): NUpath Ethical Reasoning, NUpath Natural/Designed World
BIOL 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BIOL 2217. Integrated Anatomy and Physiology 1. (4 Hours)
Introduces students to integrated human anatomy and physiology. Focuses on structure and function of cells and tissues. Presents the anatomy and physiology of skin, bones, muscles, blood, and the nervous system.
Corequisite(s): BIOL 2218
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
BIOL 2218. Lab for BIOL 2217. (1 Hour)
Accompanies BIOL 2217. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): BIOL 2217
BIOL 2219. Integrated Anatomy and Physiology 2. (4 Hours)
Continues BIOL 2217. Presents the structure and function of the human endocrine, reproductive, cardiovascular, respiratory, urinary, and digestive systems as well as the regulation of metabolism and body temperature.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1117 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 2217 with a minimum grade of D-
Corequisite(s): BIOL 2220
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
BIOL 2220. Lab for BIOL 2219. (1 Hour)
Accompanies BIOL 2219. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): BIOL 2219
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
BIOL 2221. Foundations of Microbiology. (4 Hours)
Focuses on how to identify, control, and live with bacteria and viruses. Emphasizes the mechanisms of disease production, natural host defense systems, and medical interventions.
Corequisite(s): BIOL 2222
BIOL 2222. Lab for BIOL 2221. (1 Hour)
Accompanies BIOL 2221. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): BIOL 2221
BIOL 2299. Inquiries in Biological Sciences. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the latest developments in the field. Offers students an opportunity to explore both scientific practice and progress through readings, discussion, and projects and to expand and deepen their understanding of fundamental biological principles.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1107 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1111 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
BIOL 2301. Genetics and Molecular Biology. (4 Hours)
Focuses on mechanisms of inheritance, gene-genome structure and function, and developmental genetics and evolution. Examples are drawn from the broad spectrum of plants, animals, fungi, bacteria, and viruses. Topics and analytical approaches include transmission genetics, molecular biology and gene regulation, DNA molecular methods, quantitative and population genetics, bioinformatics, genomics, and proteomics.
Prerequisite(s): (BIOL 1103 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1111 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1115 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 2297 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 2299 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 1105 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2290 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 2400 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2400 with a minimum grade of D- ); (CHEM 1211 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 1217 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 1151 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
BIOL 2302. Lab for BIOL 2301. (1 Hour)
Accompanies BIOL 2301. Reinforces and extends concepts presented and practiced in the accompanying lecture course through the application of scientific investigation methods and data analysis.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
BIOL 2307. Research Exploration in Biology. (4 Hours)
Introduces basic biological lab skills including lab safety, chemical handling, pipetting, and media preparation. Also introduces the fundamentals of experimental design, data analysis, and scientific communication. Provides an opportunity to explore authentic, current research questions in an immersive laboratory research experience. Coursework consists of team-based projects in which student groups design and execute biological experiments under the mentorship of Northeastern faculty and graduate students. Offers an opportunity to develop a research presentation and present experimental outcomes to fellow students, faculty, and staff.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2299 with a minimum grade of C-
BIOL 2309. Biology Project Lab. (4 Hours)
Offers an inquiry-based, intensive laboratory experience in which students have an opportunity to design and conduct independent research projects, applying approaches and techniques used in cell and molecular biology. Offers students an opportunity to present their results in professional formats.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Creative Express/Innov, NUpath Writing Intensive
BIOL 2327. Human Parasitology. (4 Hours)
Examines the general biology, life cycles, modes of transmission, and pathogenesis of major parasites on global human health. Explores a number of important diseases, along with the diverse protozoans, worms, and arthropods responsible for them.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1107 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1111 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1115 with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 2329. Bioethics. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to explore ethical issues arising from biological research and emerging technologies, to learn to identify and critically analyze potential ethical implications of biological research, and to evaluate theory-based arguments while respectfully engaging with a diversity of perspectives. Using their knowledge of basic cellular and molecular science as a foundation, students have an opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of the biology of genome editing and other molecular and cellular biology-based technologies. Examines the history and ethical dialogue around genome editing as an in-depth example of an emerging technology with wide-ranging applications. Studies additional technologies with respect to research progress, international perspectives, and potential implications in the areas of security, environmental protection, and personal health.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1107 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1111 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 2299 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Ethical Reasoning
BIOL 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BIOL 2991. Research in Biology. (1-4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct introductory-level research or creative endeavors under faculty supervision. May be repeated seven times.
BIOL 3401. Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy. (4 Hours)
Examines the morphology and phylogeny of the vertebrates.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1103 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1113 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 2297 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 2299 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 2290 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2290 with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 3405. Neurobiology. (4 Hours)
Introduces the cellular and molecular functioning of the nervous system, the organization of neurons into circuits, the processing of information, and the generation of motor output.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1103 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1113 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 2297 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 2299 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 2290 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2290 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 3409. Current Topics in Biology. (4 Hours)
Examines selected topics in biology. Topics vary each semester. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D
BIOL 3411. Current Topics in Cell and Molecular Biology. (4 Hours)
Examines selected topics in cell and molecular biology. Topics vary each semester. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 3413. Current Topics in Organismal and Population Biology. (4 Hours)
Examines selected topics in organismal and population biology. Topics vary each semester. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1113 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1115 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 2299 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2400 with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 3415. Current Topics in Behavioral Neuroscience. (4 Hours)
Examines selected topics in behavioral neuroscience. Topics vary each semester.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 3419. Engaging with Genomics: Ethics Law and Policy. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the recent developments in human genetics and how they shape, and are shaped by, society. Topics include several of the most important social and legal aspects of genomic research, including the impact of new technologies on reproduction and kinship, gene editing and enhancement, genetic privacy, race and genomics, and the effects of gene patenting on research and pharmaceutical development. Explores questions related to the responsible conduct of genetic testing and research in human populations, practices of eugenics, rights of stakeholders during genetic testing, the patenting of human genes, and how concepts of race are being used in genetic research and in direct-to-consumer genomics.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 3421. Microbiology. (4 Hours)
Introduces morphological, ecological, and biochemical consideration of representative groups of bacteria. Introduces virology and microbial genetics; host-parasite relationships, prokaryotes of medical significance; and physical and chemical controls of microbial growth.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
Corequisite(s): BIOL 3422
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
BIOL 3422. Lab for BIOL 3421. (1 Hour)
Accompanies BIOL 3421. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): BIOL 3421
BIOL 3423. Animal Models in Biomedical Research. (4 Hours)
Seeks to familiarize students with the use of animal models in research. Emphasizes specific animal models for physiology through a detailed survey of popular and alternative animal model systems. Covers legislation; ethics; the 3Rs (replacement, reduction, and refinement of animals used in research); and the current principles that guide animal research; as well as study design and statistical analysis and animal model selection. Includes reading assignments from media reports and primary scientific literature. Requires a final report in the form of a formal protocol detailing the use of animal models, including animal model selection, description of methodology, and application of statistics to animal modeling.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 3601. Neural Systems and Behavior. (4 Hours)
Reviews major experimental approaches and key concepts used in behavioral neurobiology. Begins with a look at its history. Topics covered include spatial orientation and sensory guidance, neuronal control of motor output, neuronal processing of sensory information, sensorimotor integration, neuromodulation, circadian rhythms and biological clocks, behavioral physiology of large-scale navigation, neurobiology of communication, and cellular mechanisms of learning and memory.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 3603. Mammalian Systems Physiology. (4 Hours)
Designed to familiarize students with fundamental principles in mammalian physiology. Emphasizes major organ systems integration. Where applicable, explores and uses human physiology to reinforce principles in physiology and build upon these principles by analyzing how major organ systems effectively network for proper organismal function. Initially covers the physiological principles of energy and metabolism in mammals, including human adaptation for basic energy requirements, and then delves into basics of membrane transport. Evaluates roles for organ systems integration in the respiratory, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, hemopoietic, renal, and reproductive systems.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 3605. Developmental Neurobiology. (4 Hours)
Covers the cellular, molecular, and genetic processes that guide neural development. Focuses on how nerve cells are generated, patterned, and connected with one another to regulate animal behavior. Topics include cell differentiation, tissue patterning, neural plasticity, and cognitive development.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 3607. Current Trends in Reproductive Sciences. (4 Hours)
Introduces current trends in the field of reproductive sciences, spanning basic human reproduction, infertility, and potential horizons in medicine. Surveys topics in basic research that have the most promise to make an impact in the field of women’s health. Emphasizes human health but includes animal models in the analysis.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 3611. Biochemistry. (4 Hours)
Covers structure and function of biomolecules, central concepts of bioenergetics and thermodynamics, enzyme kinetics and regulation, and metabolic pathways.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- ; (CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of D- )
Corequisite(s): BIOL 3612
BIOL 3612. Lab for BIOL 3611. (1 Hour)
Accompanies BIOL 3611. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): BIOL 3611
BIOL 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BIOL 4701. Biology Capstone. (4 Hours)
Integrates and assesses the concepts and skills obtained from the entire biology curriculum, including experiential and classroom-based components. Requires reflection by students on their various educational experiences, extensive research of scientific questions related to these experiences, and development of an original research proposal. Offers students an opportunity to hone communication skills through formal and informal presentations, class discussion, and critique.
Prerequisite(s): ENGW 3307 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 3315 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 3302 with a minimum grade of C
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
BIOL 4705. Neurobiology of Cognitive Decline. (4 Hours)
Introduces the neuroanatomical and cognitive sequelae of brain aging and neurodegenerative disease. Covers molecular and cellular processes that damage neurons, animal models, and brain imaging. Explores higher-level manifestations of damage to, for example, memory, language, and reward systems.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 4707. Cell and Molecular Biology. (4 Hours)
Integrates molecular biology and biochemistry in the cellular context. Focuses on the organization and function of eukaryotic cells, including the regulation of nuclear structure and gene expression, signal transduction, protein synthesis and growth, cellular energetics, the cytoskeleton and cell motility, cell division, and cell death. Emphasizes the scientific methodologies and approaches that underlie discovery in cell biology.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2323 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 3611 with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 4709. Neurobiology of Learning and Memory. (4 Hours)
Explores the neurobiology of learning and memory from the level of the synapse up to the neural systems underlying emergent mnemonic function. Topics include the synaptic mechanisms underlying neural plasticity; the molecular basis of mnemonic processes; and the neural circuits serving distinct memory systems. In addition to lecture-based material, students utilize primary research and review articles from the current scientific literature to evaluate data and develop hypotheses via oral presentations and active discussions in the classroom. The overarching goal of the course is to provide a neurobiological perspective on how information is encoded, consolidated, and later retrieved and the significance of dysfunction in these processes associated with neurologic deficits and disease.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D-
BIOL 4900. Biology Research Capstone. (1 Hour)
Offers a capstone experience for biology majors who are concurrently registered for BIOL 4991 or BIOL 4994, in which they are conducting original research under the guidance of an approved mentor. Students conduct a literature search, write a research proposal, conduct the proposed research (in the context of the concurrent 4-SH research course), orally present the research, and produce a final research report. Requires students to reflect on and integrate their prior learning, participate in peer feedback, and revise their work in response to peer and instructor feedback.
Prerequisite(s): (ENGW 3307 with a minimum grade of D- or ENGW 3315 with a minimum grade of D- ); (BIOL 4991 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 4994 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
BIOL 4970. Junior/Senior Honors Project 1. (4 Hours)
Focuses on in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Combined with Junior/Senior Project 2 or college-defined equivalent for 8 credit honors project. May be repeated without limit.
BIOL 4971. Junior/Senior Honors Project 2. (4 Hours)
Focuses on second semester of in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field.
Prerequisite(s): ENGW 3307 with a minimum grade of D- ; (BIOL 4970 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 4991 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 4992 with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Integration Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
BIOL 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BIOL 4991. Research. (4 Hours)
Offers independent laboratory research work on a chosen topic under the direction of members of the department. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
BIOL 4994. Internship. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity for internship work.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
BIOL 5100. Biology Colloquium. (1 Hour)
Offers a series of colloquia in biological research by invited experts on current topics. May be repeated without limit.
BIOL 5301. Clinical Embryology. (4 Hours)
Designed to familiarize students with core biological processes associated with fertilization and early embryogenesis in humans, with an emphasis on clinical relevance. Covers fundamental aspects of female fertility and embryo development, including hormonal control of ovarian follicle growth and ovulation, fertilization, preimplantation embryonic development, implantation, and postimplantation embryonic development through gastrulation. Examines current parameters for determining egg and embryo quality. Additionally, discusses evolving stem-cell-based strategies for the treatment of female reproductive failure.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
BIOL 5306. Biological Clocks. (4 Hours)
Examines the expression of endogenously generated twenty-four-hour (circadian) rhythms in eukaryotic life, emphasizing theoretical foundations as well as current research strategies for understanding how biological clocks work. Presents analytic principles essential for understanding biological rhythmicity in any organism at any level of organization. Emphasizes strategies used to understand the concrete mechanisms underlying biological rhythmicity.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
BIOL 5535. Expanding Frontiers: Vector-Borne Diseases. (4 Hours)
Explores the biology of vectors and vector-borne infectious diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that about one-fifth of all infectious diseases are caused by vector-borne diseases. Vectors discussed include mosquitoes; ticks; Plasmodium; trypanosomes; Lyme disease-causing bacteria; and arboviruses such as dengue, yellow fever, West Nile, and Zika. Examines the development, metabolism, behavior, and symbiotic relationships—including the vector-host-pathogen relationships—through a student-generated literature review and a research proposal. Thoroughly reviews treatments and prevention strategies ranging from vaccination, pre- and postexposure prophylaxis, antimicrobial intervention, management of sequelae, and vector-control strategies. Discusses each topic from the perspective of historical and modern research.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
BIOL 5539. Advances in Genome Editing. (4 Hours)
Analyzes the scientific literature to investigate the rapidly changing field of genome editing and identify the implications for biological sciences. Explores developments in genome editing along with the clinical and experimental applications of these tools. Life sciences have been revolutionized by the emergence of technologies that enable precise alterations in DNA sequences, cells, model organisms, and even humans.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
BIOL 5541. Endocrinology. (4 Hours)
Explores the endocrine regulation of physiological systems, emphasizing current research. Lectures provide background, followed by analysis of primary literature and case studies. Topics include growth, reproduction, nutrient utilization, stress, and environmental endocrine disruption. Emphasizes humans but includes material on other animals, including invertebrates.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2319 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 2323 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 3611 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 4707 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
BIOL 5543. Stem Cells and Regeneration. (4 Hours)
Explores the biological basis of embryonic, adult, and induced pluripotent stem cells toward an understanding of their roles in development, homeostasis, and regeneration, as well as their therapeutic potential. The study of stem cells is a rapidly advancing area in biology and biomedicine. Although the biological basis of stem cells is a major focus, the course aims to put this knowledge into a biomedical context.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
BIOL 5549. Inventions in Microbial Biotechnology. (4 Hours)
Offers readings and seminar-style discussion from the current literature on important inventions and practical applications in biotechnology, with a focus on microbiome and antibiotic discovery, emphasizing new concepts.
BIOL 5573. Medical Microbiology. (4 Hours)
Emphasizes host-parasite interactions: virulence, toxins, natural flora, and immunological responses; characteristics of the common bacterial, rickettsial, and protozoal infections in humans; and epidemiology, pathology, vaccines, and chemotherapy.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
BIOL 5581. Biological Imaging. (4 Hours)
Illustrates imaging principles and techniques and their application to biological problems. Topics vary and may include microscopic and macroscopic approaches in areas such as cellular and neurobiology, ecology, and biochemistry.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
BIOL 5583. Immunology. (4 Hours)
Provides an overview of the structure and function of genes, proteins, and cells involved in the generation of the immune response. Emphasis is on molecular immunology and immunogenetics.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2323 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 3611 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
BIOL 5585. Evolution. (4 Hours)
Discusses history of evolutionary theory and lines of evidence. Emphasis is on mechanisms of speciation. Introduces and discusses current evolutionary topics.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
BIOL 5587. Comparative Neurobiology. (4 Hours)
Presents a cellular approach to structure and function of the nervous system. Topics include neuronal anatomy, phylogeny of nervous systems, electrophysiology of membrane conductances, synaptic transmission, integration in nerve cells, neuronal networks, sensory systems, motor systems, sensory-motor integration, development and regeneration of neuronal connectivity, and fundamentals of neurotechnology for biomedics. Focuses on the development of these concepts from the primary research literature. A term project involves the design of a simple nervous system for a hypothetical animal.
Attribute(s): NUpath Creative Express/Innov
BIOL 5591. Advanced Genomics. (4 Hours)
Intended for those familiar with the basics of genetics, molecular and cellular biology, and biochemistry, all of which are required to appreciate the beauty, power, and importance of modern genomic approaches. Introduces the latest sequencing methods, array technology, genomic databases, whole genome analysis, functional genomics, and more.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
BIOL 5593. Cell and Molecular Biology of Aging. (4 Hours)
Covers the recent scientific discoveries that have transformed our understanding of the process of aging. Examines in-depth the current understanding of the molecular mechanisms that control life span in model organisms, including yeast, worms, flies, and mice. Discusses dietary interventions and pharmacological approaches that extend the life span and delay the onset of age-related diseases. Covers potential applications of the new science of aging to improve human health. Requires students to read, discuss, present, and report on primary research papers from the literature.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
BIOL 5595. Cell and Molecular Neuroscience. (4 Hours)
Combines molecular biology, cell biology, pharmacology, and genetics to address the fundamental molecular properties of neurons and neuronal networks. At its core, the principles that govern the communication between cells of the nervous system are determined by their molecular components. The molecular landscape defines the individual properties of a neuron and the function of neuronal networks as a whole. Focuses on neuronal signaling through the function of ion channels and receptors, supramolecular mechanisms like synaptic transmission and axonal transport, and the molecular mechanisms that underlie biological networks and neural coding of information. Uses the fundamental understanding of molecular networks as a framework to explore the mechanisms that underlie neurological diseases and disorders. Discusses current treatments and therapies that rely on modulating neuronal signaling through molecular interactions.
Prerequisite(s): (BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- ; (PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- )) or graduate program admission
BIOL 5597. Immunotherapies of Cancer and Infectious Disease. (4 Hours)
Describes the basic principles and the current promises and disappointments with immunotherapies of cancer. Provides a historical overview of the main barriers between tumors and antitumor killer cells. The unifying focus of the lectures is the role of immunological and physiological negative regulators, i.e., “brakes” of anti-tumor immune response. A significant part of the course is dedicated to the retrospective evaluation of the last three decades of the immunological and biochemical studies that culminated in identification of the “chief of tumor defense operations,” i.e., a hypoxia-adenosinergic pathway in the tumor microenvironment.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
BIOL 5601. Multidisciplinary Approaches in Motor Control. (4 Hours)
Studies the field of human motor control, or motor neuroscience. Offers students an opportunity to obtain a fundamental understanding of the processes underlying the acquisition and control of sensorimotor behavior. The systems approach connects a variety of disciplines ranging from neurophysiology, to engineering, to neurorehabilitation. Reviews a selection of approaches with emphasis on motor learning. Focuses on early behavioral approaches, more recent neurophysiological and imaging approaches, and rehabilitation. Discusses selected representative papers, including seminal historical papers and more recent studies reflecting the current discussion in the field.
Prerequisite(s): (BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- ; (PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- )) or graduate program admission
BIOL 5821. Cell and Gene Therapies. (4 Hours)
Presents a comprehensive overview of the most recent clinical approaches in treating previously known incurable diseases. Focuses on an introduction to cell and gene therapy, how gene therapies are developed to treat some rare and genetic diseases, different modalities of in vivo and ex vivo gene therapy (cell therapy), the delivery of genetic materials to the cells, limitations, and more. Offers students an opportunity to learn about CAR T-cell therapy, different types of viruses (AAVs and retroviruses), nanoparticles, CRISPR-Cas9, RNA interference(RNAi), and many more tools in this fast-paced field.
Bioinformatics Courses
BINF 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BINF 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BINF 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BINF 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BINF 5964. Projects for Professionals. (0 Hours)
Offers students an applied project setting in which to apply their curricular learning. Working with a sponsor, students refine an applied research topic, perform research, develop recommendations that are shared with a partner sponsor, and create a plan for implementing their recommendations. Seeks to benefit students with a curriculum that supports the development of key business communication skills, project and client management skills, and frameworks for business analysis. Offers students an opportunity to learn from sponsor feedback, review 'lessons learned,' and incorporate suggestions from this review to improve and further develop their career development and professional plan. May be repeated twice.
BINF 5976. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated twice.
Biotechnology Courses
BIOT 5120. Foundations in Biotechnology. (3 Hours)
Provides an interdisciplinary, state-of-the-art introduction to biotechnology. Covers the molecular foundations of biotechnology, molecular microbiology, receptor pharmacology, drug development processes, biotech process development and scale-up, drug approval and regulatory affairs, genomics, microarray analysis, proteomics, computational biology, molecular modeling, analytical biotechnology, and bioterrorism and biotechnology.
BIOT 5145. Biotechnology Lab Skills. (1 Hour)
Introduces selected key skills and techniques central to life sciences research. Combines hands-on training in basic laboratory skills with lecture and live demonstration. Laboratory exercises highlight the importance of precision/accuracy in dispensation of liquids and in the preparation of solutions and standards, documentation and record keeping, and maintaining a safe and sterile work environment while performing scientific research.
BIOT 5219. The Biotechnology Enterprise. (2 Hours)
Exposes students to the business of biotech from scientific discovery startup through its product launch and subsequent organizational and scientific pipeline growth. Topics include scientific discovery, biotech-related funding and organizational structures, regulatory and clinical trial considerations, biotech alliances, patient access, ethics and compliance, and commercialization and growth while meeting unmet patient or consumer needs in this highly regulated industry. Although the focus is on the highest regulated standards in biopharma, the course also touches upon various aspects of other biotechnology domains.
BIOT 5220. The Role of Patents in the Biotechnology Industry, Past and Future. (1 Hour)
Covers the basics of patenting and the application of patents to the biotechnology industry, including the controversial area of gene patents.
BIOT 5225. Managing and Leading a Biotechnology Company. (3 Hours)
Covers managing projects and personnel in a technology-based organization Such activities are best carried out by those who combine the technical knowledge of their industry with the insight into the best practices for working with groups of highly educated, and often very experienced people. The biotechnology industry is strongly dependent on the concept that knowledge is always shared and ownership is collective. As the fundamental organizational mantra is teamwork, the principles of managing in this environment are key to achieving important goals. How to accomplish this and make decisions that drive innovation and success have common threads with other technology based industries, but with the added complexity of the scientific challenges facing the biotechnology industry. Restricted to students in the Bouvé College of Health Sciences and in the College of Science or by permission of the program office.
Prerequisite(s): BIOT 5219 with a minimum grade of C-
BIOT 5227. Launching Your Science: Biotechnology Entrepreneurship. (3 Hours)
Focuses on the essential startup elements that lead to pitching your science to investors and funding your biopharmaceutical enterprise. Exposes students to the basics of establishing an unmet patient need and matching that to a scientific discovery or biotechnology platform, analyzing the marketplace from a scientific perspective, determining a draft regulatory pathway and product development plan through a target product profile (TPP), appropriately sizing and hiring your early stage management team, and assessing the financial needs and risks for appropriate exit strategies. Students produce a baseline pitch deck as the culminating project for the course.
Prerequisite(s): BIOT 5219 with a minimum grade of C-
BIOT 5228. Planning and Executing Biotechnology Projects. (3 Hours)
Introduces the concepts, principles, and practices of project planning and execution. Emphasizes biotechnology sectors including human health, environment, and agri-food biotechnology. Explores the importance of managing projects and project teams in situations unique to the biotechnology industry including research and development, contract research, and technology transfer. Covers project management systems, tools, and professional codes of conduct and ethics. Requires application of course concepts to a relevant project, emphasizing development of professional skills in effective teamwork, leadership, and managing projects.
Prerequisite(s): BIOT 5219 with a minimum grade of C- or BIOT 5219 with a minimum grade of C- or BIOT 5219 with a minimum grade of C-
BIOT 5330. Drug Safety and Immunogenicity. (3 Hours)
Introduces the fundamental molecular interactions involved in immunological responses as well as in measuring and testing in a research and regulated environment. Other drug-safety-related topics include adventitious agents (viruses, microorganisms, mycoplasma) and risk factors such as product-related substances (aggregates and post-translationally modified variants), endotoxins, DNA, host-cell proteins, process contaminants such as antibiotics, and the means of testing and removing these through validated processes.
BIOT 5340. Introduction to Biotherapeutic Approvals. (3 Hours)
Introduces students to biologics. The class of drugs referred to as biologics or biotherapeutics, proteins drugs, makes up a large portion of the drugs in development and on the market today. Focuses on considerations for approval for such drugs. Offers students an opportunity to learn how to be able to describe and explain both biologics and biosimilars.
BIOT 5400. Scientific Information Management for Biotechnology Managers. (3 Hours)
Introduces biotechnology students to scientific information management specifically related to the biotechnology field. Covers an introduction to data sciences, its history, and how it is relevant to biotech today. Offers students an opportunity to obtain the background needed to assess and use modern data management capabilities such as "the cloud," big data, etc. Covers recent developments in origination of data, metadata, data models, data management, and organization and storage of data in biotechnology.
BIOT 5401. Scientific Communication and Problem Solving in Biotechnology. (3 Hours)
Provides an in-depth examination of the principles and practices of scientific writing, academic integrity, literature analysis, and scientific problem solving. Focuses on effective communication of scientific ideas through various writing genres, including research articles, presentations, and proposals. Explores ethical considerations and best practices in scientific research, including issues related to plagiarism, data falsification, Good Documentation Practice (GDP), and authorship. Emphasizes critical skills in literature analysis and data presentation, including the evaluation and presentation of novel data sets and research articles and the effective integration of scientific literature into writing.
BIOT 5500. Concepts in Regulatory Science. (3 Hours)
Introduces the science that supports regulatory affairs in the biopharmaceutical industry. Focuses on the methods and instruments used to characterize the processes and products of biotechnology including the production, separation, purification, characterization, and formulation of biologics; the pharmacokinetics of proteins; chemical and biological equivalencies of biogenerics; stability testing; high throughput assays; cell system expression; variants; method validation; and quality control.
BIOT 5560. Bioprocess Fundamentals. (3 Hours)
Focuses on the fundamental principles and elements in the process of manufacturing biopharmaceuticals. Covers kinetics of enzymatic reactions; selected microbial and cell metabolism and relevant control mechanisms; kinetics of cell growth, cell death, substrate consumption, and product formation; mathematical modeling and representation of bioprocesses; examples of industrial bioprocesses to illustrate types and operations of upstream and downstream unit operations and mass transfers in fermentation systems—the affecting factors and the impact on process development and scale-up. Also includes an overview of economic considerations. Emphasizes bioprocesses for recombinant protein production.
BIOT 5621. Protein Principles in Biotechnology. (3 Hours)
Discusses the fundamentals in structural biology and biochemistry in drug design and applied biotechnology with special focus on protein chemistry. Explores the nature, structure, and function of proteins in the context of analytical analysis, molecular medicine, and drug discovery. Emphasizes bioinformatics and computational systems biology. Specifically investigates the analysis of ongoing research projects, case studies, and practical concepts of biotechnology.
BIOT 5630. Cell Culture Applications for Biopharmaceuticals. (2 Hours)
Covers principles and concepts in mammalian and other cell culture processes for biopharmaceutical manufacturing with the goal of providing a solid foundation in biopharmaceutical production. Topics include cell line development for protein expression; batch, fed-batch, and perfusion processes; media development; bioreactor operations; impeller designs; bioprocessing, including scale up and scale down; and advancements in cell culture techniques. Emphasizes quality assurance within a current good manufacturing practices environment and examines the entire bioprocessing workflow.
BIOT 5631. Cell Culture Processes for Biopharmaceutical Production. (3 Hours)
Covers the principles and concepts involved in the development of mammalian and other types of cell culture processes for the manufacturing of biopharmaceutical products such as monoclonal antibodies and recombinant proteins. Topics include protein expression and clone generation, batch and perfusion processes and media development, bioreactor operations and scale-up, and innovations in cell culture processes. Regulatory concepts include quality assurance in a cGMP environment.
BIOT 5635. Downstream Processes for Biopharmaceutical Production. (3 Hours)
Addresses the development of recombinant protein purification processes in biotechnology. Provides an overview of the scientific principles, engineering strategies, and unit operations facilities involved in scalable protein purification processes. Also discusses viral clearance and inactivation strategies; cGMP considerations; and technological advances to improve effectiveness and efficiency, such as membrane-based disposable systems.
BIOT 5640. Drug Product Processes for Biopharmaceuticals. (3 Hours)
Introduces patient-focused drug product design for parenteral biopharmaceuticals. Explores the building of product knowledge through preformulation and formulation development, including lyophilization, to meet the target product profile for stability and during use. This expanding knowledge is applied to support of manufacturing processes and containers. Applies Quality-by-Design–based approaches to product development and discusses concepts related to Good Manufacturing Practice manufacturing. Culminates in a group project where teams address industrylike multifaceted problems bridging content from across the materials.
Prerequisite(s): BIOT 5621 with a minimum grade of C- or BIOT 5621 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 5620 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 5620 with a minimum grade of C-
BIOT 5700. Molecular Interactions of Proteins in Biopharmaceutical Formulations. (3 Hours)
Offers an up-to-date survey and review of the research and understanding of the molecular interactions of proteins in biopharmaceutical formulations, including both liquid and solid formats, during the process of drug product manufacturing. Focuses on protein-protein interactions, protein-excipients (e.g., stabilizers, surfactants) interactions, and protein at interface surfaces interactions that are critical and impactful on the stability and integrity of therapeutic proteins of interest. Emphasizes understanding the mechanistic aspect of the interactions; the approaches, methods, and techniques employed to study these phenomena; and measures considered to modulate such interactions to enhance the performance of the biopharmaceutical formulations. Students who do not meet course prerequisites may seek permission of instructor.
Prerequisite(s): (BIOT 5621 with a minimum grade of C- or BIOT 5621 with a minimum grade of C- ) or (CHEM 5620 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 5620 with a minimum grade of C- )
BIOT 5750. Molecular Approaches in Biotechnology. (3 Hours)
Discusses applications of concepts in molecular biology and biochemistry. Focuses on understanding the theory behind common techniques used in biotechnology. Topics include principles and methods for genetic manipulation, gene expression, nucleic acid sequencing, microarrays, and epigenomics. Emphasizes molecular signaling pathways, as well as primer and guide RNA design. Offers students an opportunity to practice proposal writing and other professional skills.
BIOT 5800. Gene Therapies. (2 Hours)
Provides an overview of specific gene therapy applications and diseases that are, or may be, a target of gene therapies. Includes case study analysis of gene therapies with publicly available information, as well as tools for proper identification of gene targets in disease states.
BIOT 5810. Cutting-Edge Applications in Molecular Biotechnology. (3 Hours)
Introduces the uses of molecular biology in a biotechnology setting. Includes a brief review of the basics and then dives into state-of-the-art molecular biology applications used in biotechnology today. These applications include stability and expression of cloned gene products, gene cloning strategies, transgenic species, mutation creation and analysis, DNA fingerprinting, PCR technology, microarray technology, gene probes, gene targeting, gene therapy, stem cell technology, antisense RNA, CAR T-cell therapy, RNA interference, and CRISPR/Cas9.
BIOT 5820. Cellular Therapies. (2 Hours)
The ever-changing landscape of the biotechnology field requires constant training. This course is designed to familiarize participants with some of the most cutting-edge topics available in molecular biology today: stem cells, RNA interference, CRISPR/CAS9, CAR T-cells, gene therapy, and more. Offers participants an opportunity to learn the theory behind these new technologies, how they are done, and their power in scientific discovery and treatment.
BIOT 5830. Regulatory Landscape of Cell and Gene Therapies. (2 Hours)
Introduces the current state of regulatory approvals for cell and gene therapies. Focuses on the scientific and technical considerations for approval for such drugs in the United States, in Europe, and in other key global markets. Explores the scientific challenges in the context of regulatory approval of these products, as well as how the process differs from traditional biotherapeutic product approvals.Examines how these regulatory pathways are evolving with a specific focus on quality, efficacy, and safety throughout the product life cycle (manufacturing through commercialization).
BIOT 5840. Cell and Gene Therapy Lab. (3 Hours)
Introduces selected key skills and techniques central to cell and gene therapy research. Combines hands-on training in cell and gene therapy skills with lecture and demonstration. Laboratory exercises highlight the current technical skills needed in the cell and gene therapy field, such as cell culture, siRNA, CRISPR/Cas9, stem cells, gene therapy, and editing, etc.
BIOT 5850. Higher-Order Structure Analytics. (3 Hours)
Offers a comprehensive look at various aspects of higher- order protein structures in biotherapeutics and their implications on biological drug design. Focuses heavily on protein aggregation, a type of HOS, and analysis of those aggregates including functional implications. Topics include a review of protein structure, protein aggregation, functional aspects, and techniques to reduce HOS using protein expression and purification strategies, protein folding in disease, macromolecular crystallography, nuclear magnetic resonance, analytical ultracentrifugation, circular dichroism, light scattering, electron spin labelling, cryo-EM, WAXS, and HDX-MS. Highlights experimental design and application to the biotechnology industry in identifying and reducing HOS.
BIOT 5910. Vaccines and Immunization. (3 Hours)
Emphasizes the importance of using vaccines in order to prevent the spread of infectious diseases and viruses. Discusses the evolution of vaccines throughout medical history (e.g., smallpox, polio), emphasizing lessons learned so they can be adapted to development of new and novel vaccines. Explains the molecular mechanism of how vaccines, such as vaccines that use attenuated virus to more novel vaccines that use mRNA, elicit an immune response. Examines the importance of immunization in the context of the immune system.
BIOT 5920. Foundations in Vaccine Regulatory Science. (3 Hours)
Explores the science behind how regulatory pathways were developed and how vaccines were approved for human use. The pathway for vaccine approvals by national regulatory authorities has been well established for decades. The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic created an immediate need to create new vaccines, which also created a new need for the regulatory approval of these vaccines. Examines how SARS-CoV-2 vaccines caused an increased interest in the regulatory science behind vaccine regulatory approval, specifically exploring the use of emergency use authorization (EUA) in getting SARS-CoV-2 vaccines to market. Discusses how the use of EUAs changed the regulatory science landscape of vaccines.
BIOT 5930. Molecular Tools for Vaccine Design. (3 Hours)
Discusses the molecular tools used for vaccine design and development, including the experimental tools used for attenuated whole-organism vaccines, purified macromolecule vaccines, and DNA or mRNA vaccines. Emphasizes vector design and development and specifically the challenges associated with vaccine design and development. Also studies computational tools that aid vaccine development.
BIOT 5964. Projects for Professionals. (0 Hours)
Offers students an applied project setting in which to apply their curricular learning. Working with a sponsor, students refine an applied research topic, perform research, develop recommendations that are shared with a partner sponsor, and create a plan for implementing their recommendations. Seeks to benefit students with a curriculum that supports the development of key business communication skills, project and client management skills, and frameworks for business analysis. Offers students an opportunity to learn from sponsor feedback, review 'lessons learned,' and incorporate suggestions from this review to improve and further develop their career development and professional plan. May be repeated twice.
BIOT 5976. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of members of the department on chosen topics. May be repeated without limit.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/biology/biology-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Biology Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
BIOL 1000 | Biology at Northeastern | 1 |
or INSC 1000 | Science at Northeastern | |
Experiential Learning Introduction | ||
EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op | 1 |
Biology Core Courses | ||
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | Foundations of Biology and Lab for BIOL 1107 | 5 |
BIOL 2299 | Inquiries in Biological Sciences | 4 |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
BIOL 2309 | Biology Project Lab | 4 |
BIOL 3611 and BIOL 3612 | Biochemistry and Lab for BIOL 3611 | 5 |
Biology Major Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Organismal and Evolutionary Biology | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Human Parasitology | ||
Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy | ||
Current Topics in Organismal and Population Biology | ||
Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | ||
Introduction to Evolution | ||
Marine Biology and Lab for EEMB 2700 | ||
Conservation Biology | ||
Disease Ecology | ||
Animal Behavior | ||
Intermediate and Advanced Biology | ||
Complete three additional 4– or 5-semester-hour courses from the following: | 12-15 | |
BIOL 2321 to BIOL 3999 | ||
Neurobiology of Cognitive Decline | ||
Cell and Molecular Biology | ||
BIOL 5000 to BIOL 5999 | ||
EEMB 2290 to EEMB 5515 | ||
EEMB 5548 to EEMB 5569 | ||
One of the three intermediate/advanced electives can be a research course: | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Research | ||
Internship |
Biology Capstone
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Please complete one of the following options to fulfill the capstone requirement: | 1-4 | |
Biology Capstone | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Biology Research Capstone (concurrent with BIOL 4991 or BIOL 4994, which may be used toward Intermediate/Advanced Elective) |
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Mathematics | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Statistics | ||
ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501 | Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | 5 |
Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | 5 |
CHEM 2313 and CHEM 2314 | Organic Chemistry 2 and Lab for CHEM 2313 | 5 |
Physics 1 | ||
Complete one of the following lecture/lab pairs. PHYS 1145/PHYS 1146 is recommended: | 5 | |
Physics for Life Sciences 1 and Lab for PHYS 1145 (Preferred) | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 and Recitation for PHYS 1161 | ||
Physics 2 | ||
Complete one of the following lecture/lab pairs. PHYS 1147/PHYS 1148 is recommended: | 5 | |
Physics for Life Sciences 2 and Lab for PHYS 1147 (Preferred) | ||
Physics for Engineering 2 and Lab for PHYS 1155 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155 | ||
Physics 2 and Lab for PHYS 1165 and Recitation for PHYS 1165 | ||
Intermediate or Advanced Science | ||
Complete one course from the following: | 4 | |
BIOL 2301 to BIOL 5999 | ||
CHEM 2311 to CHEM 5999 | ||
EEMB 2290 to EEMB 5999 | ||
ENVR 2310 to ENVR 5999 | ||
MATH 2280 to MATH 5999 | ||
PHYS 2303 to PHYS 5999 | ||
PSYC 2290 to PSYC 5999 |
Writing Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ENGW 1111 | First-Year Writing | 4 |
ENGW 3307 | Advanced Writing in the Sciences | 4 |
or ENGW 3315 | Interdisciplinary Advanced Writing in the Disciplines |
Biology Major Credit/GPA Requirement
Complete 78 semester hours in the major with a cumulative GPA of 2.000.
Due to overlap in course content, double majoring in biology and cell and molecular biology, biology and biochemistry, biology and behavioral neuroscience, or biology and marine biology is not permitted.
Program Requirement
130 total semester hours required
Please note that these are sample plans of study. While the requirements are the same for all students, individual schedules may vary. This sample plan of study also presumes selection of course options that carry corequisite labs and a 4 SH capstone option. Total program hours may be lower for students who choose other course options and/or other capstone options.
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 1107 | 4 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | Vacation | |
BIOL 1108 | 1 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | ||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
INSC 1000 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
19 | 17 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
CHEM 2313 | 4 | BIOL 2309 | 4 | BIOL 3611 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
CHEM 2314 | 1 | EESC 2000 | 1 | BIOL 3612 | 1 | ||
ENVR 2500 | 4 | PHYS 1145 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
ENVR 2501 | 1 | PHYS 1146 | 1 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
18 | 18 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | PHYS 1147 | 4 | Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHYS 1148 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Organismal/Evolutionary Bio Elective | 4 | ||||||
Organismal/Evolutionary Biology laboratory | 1 | ||||||
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | ||||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 18 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | BIOL 4701 | 4 | ||||
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | ||||||
Intermediate/Advanced Science Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 132 |
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
AP Credit for Biology | 5 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | BIOL 2309 | 4 | Vacation | |
BIOL 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||
BIOL 2299 | 4 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | ||||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
23 | 18 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
CHEM 2313 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | PHYS 1147 | 4 |
CHEM 2314 | 1 | PHYS 1148 | 1 | ||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENVR 2500 | 4 | ||||||
ENVR 2501 | 1 | ||||||
PHYS 1145 | 4 | ||||||
PHYS 1146 | 1 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 9 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 3611 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Intermediate/Advanced Science Elective | 4 |
BIOL 3612 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | ||||||
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | BIOL 4701 | 4 | ||||
Organismal/Evolutionary Bio Elective | 4 | Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | ||||
Organismal/Evolutionary Biology laboratory | 1 | Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 132 |
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | Vacation | |
BIOL 1107 | 4 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | ||
BIOL 1108 | 1 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
19 | 17 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
CHEM 2313 | 4 | BIOL 2309 | 4 | Vacation | Co-op | 0 | |
CHEM 2314 | 1 | EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||
ENVR 2500 | 4 | PHYS 1145 | 4 | ||||
ENVR 2501 | 1 | PHYS 1146 | 1 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
18 | 18 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | BIOL 3611 | 4 | Vacation | Co-op | 0 | |
BIOL 3612 | 1 | ||||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | ||||||
PHYS 1147 | 4 | ||||||
PHYS 1148 | 1 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 18 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | Vacation | Co-op | 0 | |
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Laboratory | 1 | ||||||
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | ||||||
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Laboratory | 1 | ||||||
Organismal/Evolutionary Bio Elective | 4 | ||||||
Organismal/Evolutionary Bio Elective laboratory | 1 | ||||||
0 | 15 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | BIOL 4701 | 4 | ||||
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | ||||||
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Laboratory | 1 | ||||||
Intermediate/Advanced Science Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 17 | ||||||
Total Hours: 131 |
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
AP Credit for Biology | 5 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | BIOL 2309 | 4 | Vacation | |
BIOL 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||
BIOL 2299 | 4 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | ||||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
19 | 18 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
CHEM 2313 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | PHYS 1147 | 4 |
CHEM 2314 | 1 | PHYS 1148 | 1 | ||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENVR 2500 | 4 | ||||||
ENVR 2501 | 1 | ||||||
PHYS 1145 | 4 | ||||||
PHYS 1146 | 1 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 9 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 3611 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Vacation | |
BIOL 3612 | 1 | ||||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Vacation | |
(Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective Lab) | 1 | ||||||
Organismal/Evolutionary Bio Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | BIOL 4701 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Intermediate/Advanced Biology Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 12 | ||||||
Total Hours: 132 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/biology/biology-english-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Biology Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
BIOL 1000 | Biology at Northeastern | 1 |
or ENGL 1000 | English at Northeastern | |
or INSC 1000 | Science at Northeastern | |
Experiential Learning Introduction | ||
EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op | 1 |
Biology Core Courses | ||
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | Foundations of Biology and Lab for BIOL 1107 | 5 |
BIOL 2299 | Inquiries in Biological Sciences | 4 |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
BIOL 2309 | Biology Project Lab | 4 |
BIOL 3611 and BIOL 3612 | Biochemistry and Lab for BIOL 3611 | 5 |
Organismal and Evolutionary Biology Elective | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Human Parasitology | ||
Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy | ||
Current Topics in Organismal and Population Biology | ||
Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | ||
Introduction to Evolution | ||
Marine Biology and Lab for EEMB 2700 | ||
Conservation Biology | ||
Disease Ecology | ||
Animal Behavior | ||
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Electives | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
BIOL 2327 to BIOL 3999 | ||
BIOL 4705 to BIOL 5999 | ||
Supporting Courses for Biology | ||
Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | 5 |
CHEM 2313 and CHEM 2314 | Organic Chemistry 2 and Lab for CHEM 2313 | 5 |
Math | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Biostatistics | ||
ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501 | Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | 5 |
Physics | ||
Complete 1 lecture and lab, Physics for Life Sciences recommended: | 5 | |
Physics for Life Sciences 1 and Lab for PHYS 1145 | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 | ||
Intermediate/Advanced Science Elective | ||
Complete one course from the following: | 4-5 | |
BIOL 2301 to BIOL 5999 | ||
CHEM 2311 to CHEM 5999 | ||
EEMB 2290 to EEMB 5999 | ||
ENVR 2310 to ENVR 5999 | ||
MATH 2280 to MATH 5999 | ||
PHYS 2303 to PHYS 5999 | ||
PSYC 2290 to PSYC 5999 | ||
Writing Requirements for the College | ||
ENGW 1111 | First-Year Writing | 4 |
ENGW 3307 | Advanced Writing in the Sciences (Preferred) | 4 |
or ENGW 3315 | Interdisciplinary Advanced Writing in the Disciplines |
English Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Foundational Courses | ||
ENGL 1400 | Introduction to Literary Studies | 4 |
ENGL 1160 | Introduction to Rhetoric | 4 |
or ENGL 1410 | Introduction to Research on Writing | |
ENGL 1700 | Global Literatures 1 | 4 |
or ENGL 1701 | Global Literatures 2 |
English Electives
Two of the courses chosen from the lists below must be at the 3000 or 4000 level.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Diversity | ||
Complete one course from the following. You may reuse this course to fulfill an additional English requirement below: | 4 | |
Early African-American Literature | ||
Postcolonial Literature | ||
American Women Writers | ||
Asian-American Literature | ||
Writing in Global Contexts | ||
Bedrooms and Battlefields: Hebrew Bible and the Origins of Sex, Gender, and Ethnicity | ||
Modern and Contemporary Jewish Literature | ||
Literary Periods | ||
Pre-1850 | ||
Complete one course from the following: | 4 | |
British Literature to 1800 | ||
American Literature to 1865 | ||
Introduction to Shakespeare | ||
Early African-American Literature | ||
The American Renaissance | ||
Early Literatures | ||
17th- and 18th-Century Literatures | ||
Topics in 17th- and 18th-Century British Literatures | ||
Emerson and Thoreau | ||
Bedrooms and Battlefields: Hebrew Bible and the Origins of Sex, Gender, and Ethnicity | ||
or JWSS 3678 | Bedrooms and Battlefields: Hebrew Bible and the Origins of Sex, Gender, and Ethnicity | |
Topics in Shakespeare | ||
Post-1850 | ||
Complete one of the following courses: | 4 | |
The Graphic Novel | ||
Contemporary Poetry | ||
Contemporary Fiction | ||
The Modern Bestseller | ||
Postcolonial Literature | ||
Postcolonial Women Writers | ||
American Women Writers | ||
Asian-American Literature | ||
Irish Literary Culture (Abroad) | ||
20th- and 21st-Century Literatures | ||
Modern and Contemporary Jewish Literature | ||
or JWSS 3685 | Modern and Contemporary Jewish Literature | |
20th- and 21st-Century Major Figure | ||
Theories and Methods | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Grammar: The Architecture of English | ||
Introduction to Rhetoric | ||
Introduction to Research on Writing | ||
Reading and Writing in the Digital Age | ||
Horror Fiction | ||
Science Fiction | ||
What Is Nature? | ||
Boston in Literature | ||
Literary Genres | ||
Rhetoric of Law | ||
The Practice and Theory of Teaching Writing | ||
Opening the Archive | ||
Film and Text (Abroad) | ||
Narrative Medicine | ||
Topics in Literary Criticism (reactivating for Fall 24) | ||
Introduction to Language and Linguistics | ||
Linguistic Analysis | ||
Syntax | ||
Semantics | ||
History of English | ||
Language and Gender | ||
Topics in Linguistics | ||
Major Seminar | ||
ENGL 3710 | Major Seminar | 4 |
Writing | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Creative Writing | ||
Style and Editing | ||
Digital Writing | ||
Writing and Community Engagement | ||
Writing in Global Contexts | ||
Writing to Heal | ||
Writing for Social Media: Theory and Practice | ||
Writing Boston | ||
Creative Nonfiction | ||
Poetry Workshop | ||
Fiction Workshop | ||
Writing Seminar | ||
The Writer’s Marketplace | ||
English Electives | ||
Complete any two ENGL courses that have not already been used to fulfill another requirement. | 8 |
Integrative Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Integrative English Course | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
What Is Nature? | ||
Science Writing: Origins, Ethics, and Emerging Genres | ||
Writing to Heal | ||
Technologies of Text | ||
Integrative General Biological Sciences Course | ||
Complete the following: | ||
PSYC 3464 | Psychology of Language | 4 |
Capstone Requirement
Complete one of the following capstone options:
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Biology Capstone | ||
Complete one of the options to fulfill the capstone requirement in biology: | 1-4 | |
Biology Capstone | ||
Biology Research Capstone (concurrent with BIOL 4991 or BIOL 4994, which may be used toward Intermediate/Advanced Biology) | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
English Capstone | ||
ENGL 4710 | Capstone Seminar | 4 |
Biology and English Combined Major GPA Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA required in all BIOL courses
Minimum 2.000 GPA required in all ENGL courses
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 1000 or ENGL 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | Vacation | |
BIOL 1107 | 4 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | ||||
English Writing Elective | 4 | ||||||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | ENGL 1160 or 1410 | 4 | ||||
ENGL 1400 | 4 | ||||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2309 | 4 | BIOL 3611 | 4 | Intermediate/Advanced BIOL Elective with Lab | 5 | Co-op | 0 |
CHEM 2313 | 4 | General Elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1145 | 4 | ||||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
ENGL 1700 or 1701 | 4 | Literary Period 1 | 4 | ||||
English Diversity Elective | 4 | Organismal and Evolutionary Biology Elective | 4 | ||||
17 | 16 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | Integrative Biology Course | 4 | ENGW 3307 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
ENGL 3710 | 4 | Intermediate/Advanced Science Elective | English Theories and Methods Elective | 4 | |||
Literary Period 2 | 4 | ||||||
English Elective | 4 | ||||||
4 | 12 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | ENVR 2500 | 4 | ||||
ENVR 2501 | 1 | ||||||
ENVR 2502 | 0 | ||||||
BIOL or ENGL Capstone | 4 | ||||||
Integrative English Course | 4 | ||||||
English Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 17 | ||||||
Total Hours: 124 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/biology/biology-mathematics-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Biology Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
BIOL 1000 | Biology at Northeastern | 1 |
or MATH 1000 | Mathematics at Northeastern | |
Experiential Learning Introduction | ||
EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op | 1 |
MATH 3000 | Co-op and Experiential Learning Reflection Seminar 1 | 1 |
Biology Core Courses | ||
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | Foundations of Biology and Lab for BIOL 1107 | 5 |
BIOL 2299 | Inquiries in Biological Sciences | 4 |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
BIOL 2309 | Biology Project Lab | 4 |
BIOL 3611 and BIOL 3612 | Biochemistry and Lab for BIOL 3611 | 5 |
Organismal and Evolutionary Biology Elective | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Human Parasitology | ||
Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy | ||
Current Topics in Organismal and Population Biology | ||
Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | ||
Introduction to Evolution | ||
Marine Biology and Lab for EEMB 2700 | ||
Conservation Biology | ||
Disease Ecology | ||
Animal Behavior | ||
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Electives | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
BIOL 2327 to BIOL 3999 | ||
BIOL 4705 to BIOL 5999 | ||
Supporting Courses for Biology | ||
Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | 5 |
CHEM 2313 and CHEM 2314 | Organic Chemistry 2 and Lab for CHEM 2313 | 5 |
Writing | ||
ENGW 1111 | First-Year Writing | 4 |
ENGW 3307 | Advanced Writing in the Sciences (Preferred) | 4 |
or ENGW 3315 | Interdisciplinary Advanced Writing in the Disciplines |
Mathematics Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Calculus 1 | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Calculus 2 and Calculus 3 | ||
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2321 | Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Physics | ||
PHYS 1161 and PHYS 1162 | Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 | 5 |
Required Mathematics Courses | ||
MATH 1365 | Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning | 4 |
MATH 2341 | Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering | 4 |
MATH 3081 | Probability and Statistics | 4 |
Mathematics Electives | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Linear Algebra | ||
MATH 3001 to MATH 4899 |
Capstone and Integrative Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Capstone | ||
Complete one of the following: | 1-4 | |
Biology Capstone | ||
Biology Research Capstone (concurrent with BIOL 4991 or BIOL 4994, which may be used toward Intermediate/Advanced Biology) | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Research Capstone | ||
Applied Mathematics Capstone | ||
Introduction to Mathematical Methods and Modeling | ||
Biology/Mathematics Integrative Courses | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8-10 | |
Bioinformatics Programming | ||
Introduction to Computational Methods in Bioinformatics | ||
Neurobiology | ||
Biological Imaging | ||
Advanced Genomics | ||
Fundamentals of Computer Science 1 and Lab for CS 2500 | ||
Fundamentals of Computer Science 2 and Lab for CS 2510 | ||
Population Dynamics | ||
Statistics and Stochastic Processes | ||
Applied Statistics |
Biology and Mathematics Combined Major Credit/GPA Requirements
Complete 93 semester hours in the major with a cumulative GPA of 2.000.
Program Requirements
139 total semester hours required
Sample Pattern: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 1000 or MATH 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | Vacation | |
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | 5 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | ||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | SI NUpath elective | 4 | ||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | MATH 1342 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1163 | 0 | MATH 1365 | 4 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 17 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2309 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | MATH elective | 4 |
CHEM 2313 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective with lab | 5 | ||
CHEM 2314 | 1 | ||||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
MATH 2321 | 4 | ||||||
MATH 2341 | 4 | ||||||
18 | 4 | 0 | 9 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 3611 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | ER NUpath elective | 4 |
BIOL 3612 | 1 | ENGW 3307 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
MATH 3000 | 1 | ||||||
PHYS 1161 | 4 | ||||||
PHYS 1162 | 1 | ||||||
PHYS 1163 | 0 | ||||||
MATH elective | 4 | ||||||
MATH elective | 4 | ||||||
19 | 0 | 4 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
MATH 3081 | 4 | Biology/mathematics integrative course | 4 | ||||
Biology/mathematics integrative course | 4 | Capstone option | 4 | ||||
DD NUpath elective | 4 | IC NUpath elective | 4 | ||||
Organismal and evolutionary biology elective | 4 | Intermediate/advanced biology elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 139 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/biology/biology-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Restrictions
This minor is not available for students who major in biology, biochemistry, behavioral neuroscience, cell and molecular biology, marine biology, ecology and evolutionary biology, or any combined major that involves those subjects listed above.
Required Biology Courses
Complete five biology courses for a total of at least 22 semester hours. Two of the five courses must contain a lab corequisite.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory Biology 1 | ||
Complete one of the following course with lab: | 5 | |
Foundations of Biology and Lab for BIOL 1107 | ||
General Biology 1 and Lab for BIOL 1111 | ||
Introductory Biology 2 | ||
Complete one of the following courses: | 4-5 | |
Inquiries in Biological Sciences | ||
General Biology 2 and Lab for BIOL 1113 | ||
Genetics | ||
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 (requires introductory chemistry prerequisites) | 5 |
Organismal and Evolutionary Biology Course List
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete at least one of the following: | 4 | |
Human Parasitology | ||
Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy | ||
Current Topics in Organismal and Population Biology | ||
Evolution | ||
EEMB 2290 to EEMB 3450 | ||
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
The remaining courses can be selected from either the organismal and evolutionary biology list or from the list of intermediate/advanced biology electives. | 4-5 |
Intermediate/Advanced Biology Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Foundations of Microbiology and Lab for BIOL 2221 | ||
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/biology/biology-political-science-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Biology Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
BIOL 1000 | Biology at Northeastern | 1 |
or POLS 1000 | Political Science at Northeastern | |
Experiential Learning Introduction | ||
EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op | 1 |
Biology Core Courses | ||
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | Foundations of Biology and Lab for BIOL 1107 | 5 |
BIOL 2299 | Inquiries in Biological Sciences | 4 |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
BIOL 2309 | Biology Project Lab | 4 |
BIOL 3611 and BIOL 3612 | Biochemistry and Lab for BIOL 3611 | 5 |
Organismal and Evolutionary Biology Elective | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Human Parasitology | ||
Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy | ||
Current Topics in Organismal and Population Biology | ||
Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | ||
Introduction to Evolution | ||
Marine Biology and Lab for EEMB 2700 | ||
Conservation Biology | ||
Disease Ecology | ||
Animal Behavior | ||
Intermediate/Advanced Biology | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
BIOL 2327 to BIOL 3999 | ||
BIOL 4705 to BIOL 5999 | ||
Supporting Courses for Biology | ||
Mathematics | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | 5 |
CHEM 2313 and CHEM 2314 | Organic Chemistry 2 and Lab for CHEM 2313 | 5 |
Physics | ||
PHYS 1145 and PHYS 1146 | Physics for Life Sciences 1 and Lab for PHYS 1145 | 5 |
Writing | ||
ENGW 1111 | First-Year Writing | 4 |
ENGW 3307 | Advanced Writing in the Sciences (Preferred) | 4 |
or ENGW 3315 | Interdisciplinary Advanced Writing in the Disciplines |
Political Science Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Core Courses in Political Science | ||
POLS 1150 | American Government | 4 |
POLS 1155 | Comparative Politics | 4 |
POLS 1160 | International Relations | 4 |
Statistics | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | ||
Quantitative Techniques | ||
Political Thought | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Ancient Philosophy and Political Thought | ||
Modern Political Thought | ||
American Political Thought | ||
Contemporary Political Thought | ||
Political Science Electives | ||
Note: You may use four courses from the elective areas to fulfill a concentration. | ||
Complete five POLS courses at the 2000 level and above. | 20 |
Political Science Concentration (Optional)
If you are working toward one of the following concentrations, declare it with your advisor so that it may be added to your record.
- American Political Institutions
- Campaigns and Elections
- Comparative Politics
- Identity, Culture, and Politics
- International Relations and Diplomacy
- Law and Legal Studies
- Public Policy
- Security Studies
Integrative Requirements and Capstone
Note: Political science courses listed below (POLS) cannot be used both as an integrative course and as an elective above.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Integrative Requirements | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Engaging with Genomics: Ethics Law and Policy | ||
Science, Technology, and Public Policy | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
The Psychology of Misinformation | ||
Capstone Requirement | ||
Complete one of the following: | 1-4 | |
Biology Capstone | ||
Biology Research Capstone (concurrent with BIOL 4991 or 4994, which may be used toward Intermediate/Advanced Biology) | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Political Science Senior Capstone | ||
Senior Thesis |
Program Requirement
136 total semester hours required
Concentration in American Political Institutions
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete four of the following: | 16 | |
State and Local Politics | ||
The U.S. Congress | ||
Judicial Process and Behavior | ||
Public Policy and Administration | ||
Public Opinion, Voting, and Elections | ||
Campaign Strategy |
Concentration in Campaigns and Elections
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
POLS 3160 | Campaign Strategy | 4 |
POLS 3302 | Judicial Process and Behavior | 4 |
Campaigns and Elections Electives | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Urban Policies and Politics | ||
State and Local Politics | ||
POLS 3162 | ||
Public Opinion, Voting, and Elections | ||
Politics and Mass Media |
Concentration in Comparative Politics
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Theoretical Requirement | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
The Holocaust and Comparative Genocide | ||
Democratic Erosion | ||
Immigration Politics | ||
Religion and Politics | ||
Nationalism | ||
Revolution, Civil War, and Insurrection | ||
Politics of Developing Nations | ||
Regional Requirements | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Politics and Governance of Europe and the European Union | ||
Government and Politics in the Middle East | ||
Experiential/Practicum Requirement | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Model Arab League | ||
Model NATO | ||
Dialogue of Civilizations: Government and Politics Abroad |
Concentration in Identity, Culture, and Politics
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Core Course | ||
POLS 3418 | Nationalism | 4 |
Electives | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Immigration Politics | ||
Music and Politics in America and Abroad | ||
Religion and Politics | ||
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Issues in Public Policy | ||
Law and Society |
Concentration in International Relations and Diplomacy
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Experiential/Practicum Requirement | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Model United Nations | ||
Model Arab League | ||
Dialogue of Civilizations: International Politics Abroad | ||
Core Courses | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
International Political Economy | ||
International Law | ||
Politics and Governance of Europe and the European Union | ||
International Security |
Concentration in Law and Legal Studies
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete four of the following: | 16 | |
American Political Thought | ||
The U.S. Congress | ||
Judicial Process and Behavior | ||
Race, Inequality, and the Law | ||
Law and Society | ||
International Law | ||
Global Governance | ||
U.S. Constitutional Law | ||
U.S. Civil Liberties |
Concentration in Public Policy
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Core Requirement | ||
POLS 3307 | Public Policy and Administration | 4 |
Electives | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Urban Policies and Politics | ||
State and Local Politics | ||
Science, Technology, and Public Policy | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
U.S. Foreign Policy |
Concentration in Security Studies
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete four of the following: | 16 | |
U.S. National Security Policy | ||
Terrorism and Counterterrorism | ||
U.S. Foreign Policy | ||
Revolution, Civil War, and Insurrection | ||
Politics of Developing Nations | ||
International Security |
Please note that these are sample plans of study. While the requirements are the same for all students, individual schedules may vary.
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 1000 or POLS 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | Vacation | |
BIOL 1107 | 4 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | ||
BIOL 1108 | 1 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | POLS upper-division elective | 4 | ||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | POLS 1155 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
POLS 1150 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 17 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2309 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Intermediate/advanced BIOL elective with lab | 5 |
CHEM 2313 | 4 | Elective (can be taken online) | 4 | POLS elective | 4 | ||
CHEM 2314 | 1 | ||||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
POLS 1160 | 4 | ||||||
IC NUpath elective | 4 | ||||||
18 | 4 | 0 | 9 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 3611 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Advanced writing | 4 |
BIOL 3612 | 1 | ER NUpath elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1145 | 4 | ||||||
PHYS 1146 | 1 | ||||||
Organismal and evolutionary biology elective with lab | 5 | ||||||
Political thought course | 4 | ||||||
19 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
BIOL/POLS integrative course | 4 | ENVR 2500 | 4 | ||||
BIOL/POLS integrative course | 4 | ENVR 2501 | 1 | ||||
DD NUpath elective | 4 | Capstone | 4 | ||||
POLS elective | 4 | POLS elective | 4 | ||||
POLS elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 17 | ||||||
Total Hours: 136 |
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 1000 or POLS 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | Vacation | |
BIOL 1107 | 4 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | ||
BIOL 1108 | 1 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | POLS elective | 4 | ||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | POLS 1155 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1163 | 0 | ||||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
POLS 1150 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 17 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2309 | 4 | BIOL 3611 | 4 | Intermediate/advanced BIOL with lab | 5 | Co-op | 0 |
CHEM 2313 | 4 | BIOL 3612 | 1 | POLS elective | 4 | ||
CHEM 2314 | 1 | PHYS 1145 | 4 | ||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | PHYS 1146 | 1 | ||||
POLS 1160 | 4 | Organismal and evolutionary biology elective with lab | 5 | ||||
IC NUpath elective | 4 | Political thought course | 4 | ||||
18 | 19 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | BIOL/POLS integrative course | 4 | Advanced writing | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
General elective (can be taken online) | 4 | BIOL/POLS integrative course | 4 | ER NUpath elective | 4 | ||
DD NUpath elective | 4 | ||||||
POLS elective | 4 | ||||||
4 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | ENVR 2500 | 4 | ||||
ENVR 2501 | 1 | ||||||
Capstone | 4 | ||||||
POLS elective | 4 | ||||||
POLS elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 17 | ||||||
Total Hours: 136 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/biology/cell-molecular-biology-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Cell and Molecular Biology Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
BIOL 1000 | Biology at Northeastern | 1 |
or INSC 1000 | Science at Northeastern | |
Experiential Learning Introduction | ||
EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op | 1 |
Cell and Molecular Biology Core Courses | ||
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | Foundations of Biology and Lab for BIOL 1107 | 5 |
BIOL 2299 | Inquiries in Biological Sciences | 4 |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
BIOL 2309 | Biology Project Lab | 4 |
BIOL 3611 and BIOL 3612 | Biochemistry and Lab for BIOL 3611 | 5 |
BIOL 4707 | Cell and Molecular Biology | 4 |
BIOL 5591 | Advanced Genomics | 4 |
Intermediate/Advanced Cell and Molecular Biology Electives | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8–9 | |
Bioethics | ||
Current Topics in Cell and Molecular Biology | ||
Microbiology and Lab for BIOL 3421 | ||
Neural Systems and Behavior | ||
Mammalian Systems Physiology | ||
Developmental Neurobiology | ||
Endocrinology | ||
Stem Cells and Regeneration | ||
Inventions in Microbial Biotechnology | ||
Medical Microbiology | ||
Biological Imaging | ||
Immunology | ||
Evolution | ||
Comparative Neurobiology | ||
Cell and Molecular Biology of Aging | ||
Immunotherapies of Cancer and Infectious Disease | ||
Research | ||
One of the two intermediate/advanced electives can be a research course: | 4 | |
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Research | ||
Internship |
Biology Capstone
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following to fulfill the capstone requirement: | 1–4 | |
Biology Capstone | ||
Biology Research Capstone (concurrent with BIOL 4991 or BIOL 4994, which may be used toward Intermediate/Advanced Cell and Molecular Biology Electives) | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 |
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Mathematics | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Statistics | ||
ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501 | Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | 5 |
Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | 5 |
CHEM 2313 and CHEM 2314 | Organic Chemistry 2 and Lab for CHEM 2313 | 5 |
Physics 1 | ||
Complete one of the following lecture/lab pairs (PHYS 1145/PHYS 1146 is recommended): | 5 | |
Physics for Life Sciences 1 and Lab for PHYS 1145 (Preferred) | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 and Recitation for PHYS 1161 (Physics 1) | ||
Physics 2 | ||
Complete one of the following lecture/lab pairs (PHYS 1147/PHYS 1148 is recommended): | 5 | |
Physics for Life Sciences 2 and Lab for PHYS 1147 | ||
Physics for Engineering 2 and Lab for PHYS 1155 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155 | ||
Physics 2 and Lab for PHYS 1165 and Recitation for PHYS 1165 | ||
Intermediate or Advanced Science | ||
Complete one course from the following: | 4–5 | |
BIOL 2301 to BIOL 5999 | ||
CHEM 2311 to CHEM 5999 | ||
EEMB 2290 to EEMB 5999 | ||
ENVR 2310 to ENVR 5999 | ||
MATH 2280 to MATH 5999 | ||
PHYS 2303 to PHYS 5999 | ||
PSYC 2290 to PSYC 5999 |
Writing Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ENGW 1111 | First-Year Writing | 4 |
ENGW 3307 | Advanced Writing in the Sciences | 4 |
or ENGW 3315 | Interdisciplinary Advanced Writing in the Disciplines |
Cell and Molecular Biology Major Credit/GPA Requirement
Complete 78 semester hours in the major with a cumulative GPA of 2.000.
Due to overlap in course content, double majoring in cell and molecular biology and biology, biochemistry, marine biology, or behavioral neuroscience is not permitted.
Program Requirement
130 total semester hours required
Please note that these are sample plans of study. They include a selection of course options that carry corequisite labs and the 4-semester-hour capstone option. Total program hours may be lower for students who choose other course options and/or other capstone options. While the requirements are the same for all students, individual schedules may vary.
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 1107 | 4 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | Vacation | |
BIOL 1108 | 1 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | ||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
INSC 1000 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
19 | 17 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
CHEM 2313 | 4 | BIOL 2309 | 4 | BIOL 3611 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
CHEM 2314 | 1 | EESC 2000 | 1 | BIOL 3612 | 1 | ||
ENVR 2500 | 4 | PHYS 1145 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
ENVR 2501 | 1 | PHYS 1146 | 1 | ||||
Intermediate/advanced CMB elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
18 | 18 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3307 | 4 | BIOL 4707 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHYS 1147 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1148 | 1 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Intermediate/advanced CMB elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | BIOL 5591 | 4 | ||||
Capstone | 4 | ||||||
Intermediate/advanced science elective | 4 | ||||||
Intermediate/advanced biology laboratory | 1 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 17 | ||||||
Total Hours: 132 |
Sample Plan of Study: Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 1107 | 4 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | Vacation | |
BIOL 1108 | 1 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | ||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
INSC 1000 | 1 | ||||||
15 | 17 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
CHEM 2313 | 4 | BIOL 2309 | 4 | BIOL 3611 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
CHEM 2314 | 1 | EESC 2000 | 1 | BIOL 3612 | 1 | ||
ENVR 2500 | 4 | PHYS 1145 | 4 | ||||
ENVR 2501 | 1 | PHYS 1146 | 1 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
18 | 18 | 5 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | BIOL 4707 | 4 | Vacation | Co-op | 0 | |
ENGW 3307 | 4 | ||||||
PHYS 1147 | 4 | ||||||
PHYS 1148 | 1 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | Intermediate/advanced CMB elective | 4 | Vacation | Co-op | 0 | |
Intermediate/advanced science elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | BIOL 5591 | 4 | ||||
Capstone | 4 | ||||||
Intermediate/advanced CMB elective | 4 | ||||||
Intermediate/advanced CMB elective lab | 1 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 17 | ||||||
Total Hours: 132 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/biology/cell-molecular-biology-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Restrictions
This minor is not available for students who major in biology, biochemistry, behavioral neuroscience, cell and molecular biology, ecology and evolutionary biology, marine biology, or any combined major that involves those listed above.
Required Biology Courses
Complete five biology courses for a total of at least 22 semester hours. At least two of the five courses must contain a lab corequisite.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory Biology 1 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Foundations of Biology and Lab for BIOL 1107 | ||
General Biology 1 and Lab for BIOL 1111 | ||
Introductory Biology 2 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
General Biology 2 and Lab for BIOL 1113 | ||
Inquiries in Biological Sciences | ||
Required Genetics and Cell Biology | ||
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 (requires introductory chemistry prerequisites) | 5 |
BIOL 4707 | Cell and Molecular Biology | 4 |
or BIOL 5591 | Advanced Genomics |
Intermediate/Advanced Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete at least one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Neurobiology | ||
Current Topics in Cell and Molecular Biology | ||
Microbiology and Lab for BIOL 3421 | ||
Neural Systems and Behavior | ||
Developmental Neurobiology | ||
Biochemistry and Lab for BIOL 3611 | ||
BIOL 5499 to BIOL 5583 | ||
Credit/GPA Requirement
Complete 22 semester hours
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/biology/science-writing-minor/
Required Science Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory Science Course | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
General Biology 1 | ||
or BIOL 1107 | Foundations of Biology | |
General Chemistry for Engineers | ||
or CHEM 1161 | General Chemistry for Science Majors | |
or CHEM 1214 | General Chemistry 2 | |
Foundations in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology | ||
Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences | ||
Calculus 2 | ||
or MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | |
Physics for Engineering 2 | ||
or PHYS 1165 | Physics 2 | |
or PHYS 1175 | Physics 2 for Bioscience and Bioengineering | |
Foundations of Psychology |
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Intermediate/Advanced Science Course | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4–5 | |
BIOL 2301–BIOL 5999 | ||
CHEM 2311–CHEM 5999 | ||
EEMB 2400–EEMB 5999 | ||
ENVR 2310–ENVR 5999 | ||
MATH 2280–MATH 5999 | ||
PHYS 2303–PHYS 5999 | ||
PSYC 2290–PSYC 5999 |
Required Writing/Communication Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Science, Communication, and Society | ||
Science Writing: Origins, Ethics, and Emerging Genres |
Science Writing Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete 8 semester hours from the following: | 8 | |
Environmental Issues, Communication, and the Media | ||
What Is Nature? | ||
Visual Writing | ||
Technologies of Text | ||
Narrative Medicine | ||
Science Writing | ||
Data Storytelling |
Credit and GPA Requirements
A minimum of 20 semester hours and a 2.00 GPA are required in the minor.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/chemistry-chemical-biology/
Chemistry and Chemical Biology Courses
CHEM 1000. Chemistry/Chemical Biology at Northeastern. (1 Hour)
Intended for freshmen in the College of Science. Introduces students to liberal arts; familiarizes them with their major; develops the academic skills necessary to succeed (analytical ability and critical thinking); provides grounding in the culture and values of the University community; and helps to develop interpersonal skills—in short, familiarizes students with all skills needed to become a successful university student.
CHEM 1001. Connecting Chemistry. (1 Hour)
Offers first-year chemistry majors an opportunity to connect with the broad field of chemistry in a seminar format with faculty and alumni speakers. Emphasizes how the classroom experience, the laboratory program, and co-op lead to a diverse set of careers. Introduces students to current research in the chemical sciences and related fields.
CHEM 1101. General Chemistry for Health Sciences. (4 Hours)
Provides a one-semester introduction to general chemistry for the health sciences. Covers the fundamentals of elements and atoms; ionic and molecular structure; chemical reactions and their stoichiometry, energetics, rates, and equilibriums; and the properties of matter as gases, liquids, solids, and solutions. Other topics include acids and bases, and nuclear chemistry. Applications to the health sciences are included throughout.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1102, CHEM 1103
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
CHEM 1102. Lab for CHEM 1101. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 1101. Covers a range of topics from the course, such as qualitative and quantitative analysis and the characteristics of chemical and physical processes. Includes measurements of heat transfer, rate and equilibrium constants, and the effects of temperature and catalysts. Emphasis is on aqueous acid-base reactions and the properties and uses of buffer systems.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1101, CHEM 1103
CHEM 1103. Recitation for CHEM 1101. (0 Hours)
Accompanies CHEM 1101. Covers various topics from the course.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1101, CHEM 1102
CHEM 1117. Chemical Perspectives on Green Energy: Emerging Technologies and Opportunities. (4 Hours)
Introduces the chemical principles behind everyday energy sources in the 21st century, including both classic and emergent sources.Examines critical questions concerning the demand for energy and the environmental impact of fuel consumption. Emphasizes the role that chemistry plays in the search for, and emergence of, renewable energy sources, such as biofuels, wind energy, and advanced battery technology. Offers students an opportunity to develop knowledge concerning evaluation of the efficiency of technologies and their impact on current global climate and to gain an appreciation of the sociopolitical debates surrounding traditional and emergent energy technologies. High school chemistry strongly recommended.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
CHEM 1151. General Chemistry for Engineers. (4 Hours)
Corresponds to one semester of study in important areas of modern chemistry, such as details of the gaseous, liquid, and solid states of matter; intra- and intermolecular forces; and phase diagrams. Presents the energetics and spontaneity of chemical reactions in the context of chemical thermodynamics, while their extent and speed is discussed through topics in chemical equilibria and kinetics. Aspects of electrochemical energy storage and work are considered in relation to batteries, fuel, and electrolytic cells.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1153
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
CHEM 1153. Recitation for CHEM 1151. (0 Hours)
Accompanies CHEM 1151. Offers a weekly sixty-five-minute drill/discussion session conducted by chemistry faculty or graduate teaching assistants. Discusses the homework assignments of CHEM 1151 in detail with emphasis on student participation.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1151
CHEM 1161. General Chemistry for Science Majors. (4 Hours)
Introduces the principles of chemistry, focusing on the particulate nature of matter and its interactions and reactions that form the basis for the underlying molecular dynamics of living systems. Presents basic concepts of chemical bonding and intermolecular interactions for molecules and molecules’ behavior in aqueous solutions with examples from biologically relevant molecules. Introduces kinetics and chemical thermodynamics with examples from biological systems. Offers students an opportunity to obtain a framework for understanding the chemical basis for different methods for separating and purifying biological compounds.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1162, CHEM 1163
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
CHEM 1162. Lab for CHEM 1161. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 1161. Introduces basic laboratory techniques. Covers a range of topics including qualitative and quantitative analysis and the characteristics of chemical and physical processes.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1161, CHEM 1163
CHEM 1163. Recitation for CHEM 1161. (0 Hours)
Accompanies CHEM 1161. Covers various topics from the course. Offers students an opportunity to work interactively with instructors and other students to learn and apply the knowledge acquired in lecture.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1161, CHEM 1162
CHEM 1211. General Chemistry 1. (4 Hours)
Introduces the principles of chemistry, focusing on the states and structure of matter and chemical stoichiometry. Presents basic concepts and definitions, moles, gas laws, atomic structure, periodic properties and chemical bonding, all within a contextual framework.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1212, CHEM 1213
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
CHEM 1212. Lab for CHEM 1211. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 1211. Covers a range of topics from the course including qualitative and quantitative analysis and the characteristics of chemical and physical processes.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1211, CHEM 1213
CHEM 1213. Recitation for CHEM 1211. (0 Hours)
Accompanies CHEM 1211. Covers various topics from the course.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1211, CHEM 1212
CHEM 1214. General Chemistry 2. (4 Hours)
Continues CHEM 1211. Introduces the principles of chemical equilibrium, the rates and mechanisms of chemical reactions, and energy considerations in chemical transformations. Covers solutions, chemical kinetics, chemical equilibria, chemical thermodynamics, electrochemistry, and chemistry of the representative elements. Such contextual themes as energy resources, smog formation, and acid rain illustrate the principles discussed.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 1211 with a minimum grade of D
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1215, CHEM 1216
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
CHEM 1215. Lab for CHEM 1214. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 1214. Covers a range of topics from the course, such as measurements of heat transfer, rate and equilibrium constants, and the effects of temperature and catalysts. Particular attention is paid to aqueous acid-base reactions and to the properties and uses of buffer systems. Quantitative analysis of chemical and physical systems is emphasized throughout.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1214, CHEM 1216
CHEM 1216. Recitation for CHEM 1214. (0 Hours)
Accompanies CHEM 1214. Covers various topics from the course.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 1214, CHEM 1215
CHEM 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
CHEM 2117. Chemistry in Culture. (4 Hours)
Offers an examination of the social, cultural, and historical implications associated with the field of chemistry. Builds on a basic understanding of chemistry to explain the important role of the field of chemistry in historical and current events. May be offered as part of a study abroad program with a focus on the culture and history of the host country. May be repeated three times.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of C- ; CHEM 1162 with a minimum grade of C-
CHEM 2161. Concepts in Chemistry. (4 Hours)
Explores basic concepts of thermodynamics; electrochemistry; and nuclear, supramolecular, and solid-state chemistry in the context of modern materials. Emphasizes connecting the particulate nature of matter to the properties of substances and patterns of chemical reactivity.
Prerequisite(s): (CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of C- )
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2162, CHEM 2163
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
CHEM 2162. Lab for CHEM 2161. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 2161. Offers hands-on exploration of the basic concepts of electrochemistry and of nuclear, supramolecular, and solid-state chemistry.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2161, CHEM 2163
CHEM 2163. Recitation for CHEM 2161. (0 Hours)
Accompanies CHEM 2161. Covers various topics from the course. Offers students an opportunity to work interactively with instructors and other students to learn and apply the knowledge acquired in lecture.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2161, CHEM 2162
CHEM 2311. Organic Chemistry 1. (4 Hours)
Introduces nomenclature, preparation, properties, stereochemistry, and reactions of common organic compounds. Presents correlations between the structure of organic compounds and their physical and chemical properties, and mechanistic interpretation of organic reactions. Includes chemistry of hydrocarbons and their functional derivatives.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 1151 with a minimum grade of D or CHEM 1214 with a minimum grade of D or CHEM 1220 with a minimum grade of D or CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of D
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2312
CHEM 2312. Lab for CHEM 2311. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 2311. Introduces basic laboratory techniques, such as distillation, crystallization, extraction, chromatography, characterization by physical methods, and measurement of optical rotation. These techniques serve as the foundation for the synthesis, purification, and characterization of products from microscale syntheses integrated with CHEM 2311.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2311
CHEM 2313. Organic Chemistry 2. (4 Hours)
Continues CHEM 2311. Focuses on additional functional group chemistry including alcohols, ethers, carbonyl compounds, and amines, and also examines chemistry relevant to molecules of nature. Introduces spectroscopic methods for structural identification.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 2311 with a minimum grade of D or CHEM 2315 with a minimum grade of D
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2314
CHEM 2314. Lab for CHEM 2313. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 2313. Basic laboratory techniques from CHEM 2312 are applied to chemical reactions of alcohols, ethers, carbonyl compounds, carbohydrates, and amines. Introduces basic laboratory techniques including infrared (IR) spectroscopy and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectronomy as analytical methods for characterization of organic molecules.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2313
CHEM 2315. Organic Chemistry 1 for Chemistry Majors. (4 Hours)
Reviews the basics of bonding and thermodynamics of organic compounds as well as conformational and stereochemical considerations. Presents the structure, nomenclature, and reactivity of hydrocarbons and their functional derivatives. Highlights key reaction mechanisms, providing an introduction to the methodology of organic synthesis.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 1214 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 1220 with a minimum grade of C-
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2316, CHEM 2324
CHEM 2316. Lab for CHEM 2315. (2 Hours)
Accompanies CHEM 2315. Introduces basic laboratory techniques, such as distillation, crystallization, extraction, chromatography, characterization by physical methods, and measurement of optical rotation. These techniques serve as the foundation for the synthesis, purification, and characterization of products from microscale syntheses integrated with CHEM 2315.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2315, CHEM 2324
CHEM 2317. Organic Chemistry 2 for Chemistry Majors. (4 Hours)
Continues CHEM 2315. Extends the study of functional groups commonly found in organic compounds, further emphasizing conceptual mastery of the relationship between structure and reactivity. Introduces structural identification of organic compounds using contemporary spectroscopic methods such as IR, MS, and NMR. Other topics include structure and reactivity of conjugated and aromatic systems, the chemistry of ethers and epoxides, and the chemistry of carbonyl-containing compounds including aldehydes, ketones, carboxylic acids, and carboxylic acid derivatives. Offers students an opportunity to develop skills in planning multistep syntheses using the retrosynthesis approach and proposing mechanisms for chemical transformations.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 2311 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2315 with a minimum grade of C-
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2318, CHEM 2325
Attribute(s): NUpath Creative Express/Innov
CHEM 2318. Lab for CHEM 2317. (2 Hours)
Accompanies CHEM 2317. Introduces basic laboratory techniques including infrared (IR) spectroscopy and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectronomy as analytical methods for characterization of organic molecules. These methods serve as the basis for characterization of products from microscale syntheses.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2317, CHEM 2325
CHEM 2319. Recitation for CHEM 2311. (0 Hours)
Offers students opportunities to work interactively with instructors and other students to learn and apply the understandings acquired in lab and lecture.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2311
CHEM 2320. Recitation for CHEM 2313. (0 Hours)
Offers students opportunities to work interactively with instructors and other students to learn and apply the understandings acquired in lab and lecture.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2313
CHEM 2321. Analytical Chemistry. (4 Hours)
Introduces the principles and practices in the field of analytical chemistry. Focuses on development of a quantitative understanding of homogeneous and heterogeneous equilibria phenomena as applied to acid-base and complexometric titrations, rudimentary separations, optical spectroscopy, electrochemistry, and statistics.
Prerequisite(s): (CHEM 1151 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 1214 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 1220 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of C- ); (CHEM 2311 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2315 with a minimum grade of C- )
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2322, CHEM 2323
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Writing Intensive
CHEM 2322. Lab for CHEM 2321. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 2321. Lab experiments provide hands-on experience in the analytical methods introduced in CHEM 2321, specifically, silver chloride gravimetry, complexometric titrations, acid-base titrations, UV-vis spectroscopy, cyclic voltammetry, Karl Fischer coulometry, and modern chromatrographic methods.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2321, CHEM 2323
CHEM 2323. Recitation for CHEM 2321. (0 Hours)
Accompanies CHEM 2321 and CHEM 2322. Covers various topics from the course. Offers students an opportunity to work interactively with instructors and other students to learn and apply the knowledge acquired in lecture and lab.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2321, CHEM 2322
CHEM 2324. Recitation for CHEM 2315. (0 Hours)
Accompanies CHEM 2315 and CHEM 2316. Offers students an opportunity to work interactively with instructors and other students to learn and apply the knowledge acquired in lab and lecture.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2315, CHEM 2316
CHEM 2325. Recitation for CHEM 2317. (0 Hours)
Accompanies CHEM 2317 and CHEM 2318. Offers students an opportunity to work interactively with instructors and other students to learn and apply the knowledge acquired in lab and lecture.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 2317, CHEM 2318
CHEM 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
CHEM 2991. Research in Chemistry and Chemical Biology. (1-4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct introductory-level research or creative endeavors under faculty supervision. May be repeated seven times.
CHEM 3100. Cosmetic Chemistry: Design and Innovation. (4 Hours)
Surveys the chemical principles (composition/structure) underlying the design of personal care products. Discusses fundamental knowledge of emulsion chemistry, reaction kinetics/dynamics, formulation design/testing, and stability assessments, as they relate to material selection. Emphasizes first identifying then assembling appropriate ingredient lists that create products (creams, serums, cleansers, hair colorants) to meet the regulatory and quality control standards set by the industry.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C-
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3101
CHEM 3101. Lab for CHEM 3100. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 3100. Focuses on the design of cosmetic products in a project-based lab. Students work in teams randomly assigned at the start of the semester to execute each lab. The design process associated with each lab includes strategy and concept generation, estimation, and prototyping. Emphasizes the development of creative designs that are motivated by content learned through the lecture. Includes a significant communication component as students present ideas in class. Students also write a publication-quality final paper, which they will be encouraged to submit to a conference or journal as part of their final project presentations in the lecture.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3100
CHEM 3331. Bioanalytical Chemistry. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to obtain a broad familiarity with bioanalytical chemistry at the undergraduate level. After reviewing basic principles of analytical chemistry, the course covers biomolecular analysis by modern methods, including chromatography, electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, and immunohistochemistry. Studies genomics, proteomics, biosensors, bioassays, and protein/DNA sequencing. Exposes students to technical literature and modern applications in biochemistry, molecular biology, and chemistry.
Prerequisite(s): (CHEM 1151 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 1214 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 1220 with a minimum grade of C- ); (CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C- ); (CHEM 2321 with a minimum grade of C- or BIOL 3611 with a minimum grade of C- ); (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1113 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1114 with a minimum grade of C )
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3332
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Writing Intensive
CHEM 3332. Lab for CHEM 3331. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 3331. Offers students an opportunity to apply modern analytical instrumentation to a selection of relevant applications as they relate to research and development labs in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3331
CHEM 3401. Chemical Thermodynamics and Kinetics. (4 Hours)
Traces the development of chemical thermodynamics through the three major laws of thermodymamics. These are applied to thermochemistry, chemical reaction and phase equilibria, and the physical behavior of multicomponent systems. Emphasizes quantitative interpretation of physical measurements.
Prerequisite(s): (MATH 1252 with a minimum grade of C- or MATH 1342 with a minimum grade of C- ); (CHEM 1214 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 1151 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of C- ); (PHYS 1151 with a minimum grade of C- or PHYS 1161 with a minimum grade of C- )
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3402
CHEM 3402. Lab for CHEM 3401. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 3401. Demonstrates the measurement of selected physical chemical phenomena presented in CHEM 3401, introducing experimental protocol and methods of data analysis. Experiments include investigations of gas nonideality and critical phenomena, electrochemical measurement of equilibrium, construction of phase diagrams, and bomb and differential scanning calorimetry.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3401
CHEM 3403. Quantum Chemistry and Spectroscopy. (4 Hours)
Studies the theory of quantum chemistry with applications to spectroscopy. Presents some simple quantum mechanical (QM) models, including the particle in a box, rigid rotor, and harmonic oscillator, followed by treatments of electrons in atoms and molecules. Microwave, infrared, Raman, NMR, ESR, atomic absorption, atomic emission, and UV-Vis spectroscopy are discussed in detail.
Prerequisite(s): (CHEM 3401 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3421 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3431 with a minimum grade of C- or CHME 3322 with a minimum grade of C- ); MATH 1342 with a minimum grade of C- ; (PHYS 1155 with a minimum grade of C- or PHYS 1165 with a minimum grade of C- )
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3404
CHEM 3404. Lab for CHEM 3403. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 3403. Explores the principles covered in CHEM 3403 by laboratory experimentation. Experiments include measurement of reaction kinetics, such as excited state dynamics, measurement of gas transport properties, atomic and molecular absorption and emission spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy of molecular vibrations, and selected applications of fluorimetry.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3403
CHEM 3410. Environmental Geochemistry. (4 Hours)
Offers students who wish to work in the geosciences or environmental science and engineering fields, including on the land, in freshwater, or the oceans, an opportunity to understand the geochemical principles that shape the natural and managed environment. Seeks to provide a context for understanding the natural elemental cycles and environmental problems through studies in atmospheric, terrestrial, freshwater, and marine geochemistry. Topics include fundamental geochemical principles; environmental mineralogy; organic and isotope geochemistry; the global carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorous cycles; atmospheric pollution; environmental photochemistry; and human-natural climate change feedbacks.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 1151 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 1214 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World
CHEM 3431. Physical Chemistry. (4 Hours)
Offers an in-depth survey of physical chemistry. Emphasizes applications in modern research, including examples from biochemistry. Topics include the laws of thermodynamics and their molecular interpretation; equilibrium in chemical and biochemical systems; molecular transport; kinetics, including complex enzyme mechanisms; and an introduction to spectroscopy and the underlying concepts of quantum chemistry.
Prerequisite(s): ((CHEM 1214 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 1220 with a minimum grade of C- ) or (CHEM 1151 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of C- )); (MATH 1252 with a minimum grade of C- or MATH 1342 with a minimum grade of C- ); (PHYS 1147 with a minimum grade of C- or PHYS 1155 with a minimum grade of C- or PHYS 1165 with a minimum grade of C- or PHYS 1175 with a minimum grade of C- )
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3432
CHEM 3432. Lab for CHEM 3431. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 3431. Covers practical skills in physical chemistry with an emphasis on current practice in chemistry, biochemistry, and pharmaceutical science. Introduces both ab initio and biological molecular modeling, differential scanning calorimetry, polymer characterization, protein unfolding and protein/ligand binding, electronic absorption spectroscopy, and synthesis of nanoparticles or quantum dots.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3431
CHEM 3501. Inorganic Chemistry. (4 Hours)
Presents the following topics: basic concepts of molecular topologies, coordination compounds, coordination chemistry, isomerism, electron-transfer reactions, substitution reactions, molecular rearrangements and reactions at ligands, and biochemical applications.
Prerequisite(s): (CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C- ); (CHEM 2321 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2331 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3331 with a minimum grade of C- )
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3502, CHEM 3503
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
CHEM 3502. Lab for CHEM 3501. (1 Hour)
Offers a laboratory course in inorganic chemistry with experiments and projects that track with the topics discussed in CHEM 3501. Designed to provide laboratory experience with the synthesis of coordination compounds and with the instrumental methods used to characterize them.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3501, CHEM 3503
CHEM 3503. Recitation for CHEM 3501. (0 Hours)
Offers students additional opportunities to work interactively with instructors and other students to learn and apply the concepts presented in CHEM 3501.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3501, CHEM 3502
CHEM 3505. Introduction to Bioinorganic Chemistry. (4 Hours)
Explores basic concepts of molecular topologies, coordination compounds, coordination chemistry, isomerism, electron-transfer reactions, substitution reactions, molecular rearrangements, and reactions at ligands in the context of metal-based drugs, imaging agents, and metalloenzymes.
Prerequisite(s): (CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C- ); (CHEM 2321 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2331 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3331 with a minimum grade of C- )
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3506, CHEM 3507
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
CHEM 3506. Lab for CHEM 3505. (1 Hour)
Offers a laboratory course in inorganic chemistry with experiments and projects that track with the topics discussed in CHEM 3505. Designed for students who have mastered basic laboratory techniques in general and organic chemistry. Introduces new synthetic techniques and applies modern analytical characterization tools not previously used in other laboratory courses (such as CHEM 3522 and CHEM 3532).
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3505, CHEM 3507
CHEM 3507. Recitation for CHEM 3505. (0 Hours)
Offers students additional opportunities to work interactively with instructors and other students to learn and apply the concepts presented in CHEM 3505.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3505, CHEM 3506
CHEM 3531. Chemical Synthesis Characterization. (1 Hour)
Introduces advanced techniques in chemical synthesis and characterization applicable to organic, inorganic, and organometallic compounds. Techniques used include working under inert atmosphere, working with liquefied gases, and handling moisture-sensitive reagents, NMR, IR, and UV-vis spectroscopy.
Prerequisite(s): (CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C- ); (CHEM 2321 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3331 with a minimum grade of C- )
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3532
CHEM 3532. Chemical Synthesis Characterization Lab. (4 Hours)
Acompanies CHEM 3531. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 3531
CHEM 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
CHEM 4456. Organic Chemistry 3: Organic Chemistry of Drug Design and Development. (4 Hours)
Studies how to apply principles of organic chemistry, and related areas of chemistry, to the design, preparation, and use of biologically active organic compounds. Explores translational chemical science in the discovery, design, and development of biologically active compounds for medical purposes, using techniques gained in organic reaction mechanisms and synthesis. Evaluates methods to incorporate specific chemical features into organic compounds to meet specific biological and biomedical criteria. Offers students an opportunity to develop problem-solving skills that extend beyond synthetic organic chemistry to a wide range of chemical disciplines.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C-
CHEM 4457. Lab for CHEM 4456. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 4456. Integrates elements of experimental design, organic synthesis, isolation and characterization of organic compounds, and interpretation of experimental observations. Students, working in small groups, evaluate a multistep synthesis of a compound developed for clinical trials as an anticancer agent, conducting the synthetic sequence, completing each reaction, characterizing the products, and interpreting and reporting the results. A final report in the form of an American Chemical Society (ACS) manuscript summarizes each group’s efforts.
Corequisite(s): CHEM 4456
CHEM 4628. Introduction to Spectroscopy of Organic Compounds. (4 Hours)
Examines the application of modern spectroscopic techniques to the structural elucidation of small organic molecules. Emphasizes the use of H and C NMR spectroscopy supplemented with information from infrared spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. Explores both the practical and nonmathematical theoretical aspects of 1D and 2D NMR experiments. Topics include the chemical shift, coupling constants, the nuclear Overhauser effect and relaxation, and 2D homonuclear and heteronuclear correlation. Designed for chemists who do not have an extensive math or physics background; no prior knowledge of NMR spectroscopy is assumed.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C-
Corequisite(s): CHEM 4629
CHEM 4629. Identification of Organic Compounds. (2 Hours)
Introduces the use of the nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrometer and basic NMR experiments. Determines the identity of unknown organic compounds by the use of mass spectrometry, infrared spectroscopy, and 1D and 2D nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C-
Corequisite(s): CHEM 4628
CHEM 4750. Senior Research. (4 Hours)
Conducts original experimental work under the direction of members of the department on a project. Introduces experimental design based on literature and a variety of techniques depending upon the individual project.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
CHEM 4901. Undergraduate Research. (4 Hours)
Conducts original research under the direction of members of the department. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2321 with a minimum grade of C-
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
CHEM 4970. Junior/Senior Honors Project 1. (4 Hours)
Focuses on in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Combined with Junior/Senior Project 2 or college-defined equivalent for 8 credit honors project. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience
CHEM 4971. Junior/Senior Honors Project 2. (4 Hours)
Focuses on second semester of in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 4970 with a minimum grade of C
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
CHEM 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
CHEM 4991. Research. (4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct research under faculty supervision. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
CHEM 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated without limit.
CHEM 4994. Internship. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity for internship work. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
CHEM 5501. Chemical Safety in the Research Laboratory. (1 Hour)
Covers the material needed to complete successfully all the online safety training that is required for our graduate students, best practices for the safe execution of common chemical laboratory procedures, advanced procedures, as well as incidents from the recent literature. Includes discussions of case studies on topics relevant for the safe and effective use of chemicals and other materials in a research laboratory environment. Undergraduates may enroll with permission of the instructor. May be repeated two times.
CHEM 5550. Introduction to Glycobiology and Glycoprotein Analysis. (3 Hours)
Covers the background and methods used for glycoprotein characterization. Offers students an opportunity to obtain the background needed to assess the analytical steps necessary for development of glycoprotein drugs. Analyzes regulatory issues behind glycoprotein drug development. Covers recent developments in analytical and regulatory sciences.
CHEM 5599. Introduction to Research Skills and Ethics in Chemistry. (0 Hours)
Seeks to prepare students for success in CHEM 5600 and in CHEM 7730. May be repeated once. Must be taken in consecutive semesters before registration into CHEM 5600 and CHEM 7730.
CHEM 5600. Research Skills and Ethics in Chemistry. (3 Hours)
Discusses ethics in science. Topics include documentation of work in your laboratory notebook, safety in a chemistry research laboratory, principles of experimental design, online computer searching to access chemical literature, reading and writing technical journal articles, preparation and delivery of an effective oral presentation, and preparation of a competitive research proposal.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 5599 with a minimum grade of S
CHEM 5610. Polymer Chemistry. (3 Hours)
Discusses the synthesis and analysis of polymer materials. Covers mechanisms and kinetics of condensation/chain-growth polymerization reactions and strategies leading to well-defined polymer architectures and compositions, including living polymerizations (free radical, cationic, anionic), catalytic approaches, and postpolymerization functionalization. Discusses correlation of chemical composition and structure to physical properties and applications.
Prerequisite(s): ((CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- ); (CHEM 3401 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3421 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3431 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- )) or graduate program admission
CHEM 5611. Analytical Separations. (3 Hours)
Describes the theory and practice of separating the components of complex mixtures in the gas and liquid phase. Also includes methods to enhance separation efficiency and detection sensitivity. Covers thin-layer, gas, and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and recently developed techniques based on HPLC including capillary and membrane-based separation, and capillary electrophoresis.
CHEM 5612. Principles of Mass Spectrometry. (3 Hours)
Describes the theory and practice of ion separation in electrostatic and magnetic fields and their subsequent detection. Topics include basic principles of ion trajectories in electrostatic and magnetic fields, design and operation of inlet systems and electron impact ionization, and mass spectra of organic compounds.
CHEM 5613. Optical Methods of Analysis. (3 Hours)
Describes the application of optical spectroscopy to qualitative and quantitative analysis. Includes the principles and application of emission, absorption, scattering and fluorescence spectroscopies, spectrometer design, elementary optics, and modern detection technologies.
CHEM 5614. Electroanalytical Chemistry. (3 Hours)
Describes the theory of electrode processes and modern electroanalytical experiments. Topics include the nature of the electrode-solution interface (double layer models), mass transfer (diffusion, migration, and convection), types of electrodes, reference electrodes, junction potentials, kinetics of electrode reactions, controlled potential methods (cyclic voltammetry, chronoamperometry), chronocoulometry and square wave voltammetry, and controlled current methods (chronopotentiometry).
CHEM 5617. Protein Mass Spectrometry Laboratory. (3 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to develop an appreciation of the appropriate choice of mass spectrometer for a particular application.
CHEM 5620. Protein Chemistry. (3 Hours)
Describes proteins (what they are, where they come from, and how they work) in the context of analytical analysis and molecular medicine. Discusses the chemical properties of proteins, protein synthesis, and the genetic origins of globular proteins in solution, membrane proteins, and fibrous proteins. Covers the physical intra- and intermolecular interactions that proteins undergo along with descriptions of protein conformation and methods of structural determination. Explores protein folding as well as protein degradation and enzymatic activity. Highlights protein purification and biophysical characterization in relation to protein analysis, drug design, and optimization.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C- or graduate program admission
CHEM 5621. Principles of Chemical Biology. (3 Hours)
Explores the use of natural and unnatural small-molecule chemical tools to probe macromolecules, including affinity labeling and click chemistry. Covers nucleic acid sequencing technologies and solid-phase synthesis of nucleic acids and peptides. Discusses in-vitro selection techniques, aptamers, and quantitative issues in library construction. Uses molecular visualization software tools to investigate structures of macromolecules. Intended for graduate and advanced undergraduate students.
Prerequisite(s): ((CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C- ); (CHEM 2321 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2331 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3331 with a minimum grade of C- ); (CHEM 3401 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3421 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3431 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- )) or graduate program admission
CHEM 5622. Lab for CHEM 5621. (1 Hour)
Accompanies CHEM 5621. Complements and reinforces the concepts from CHEM 5621 with emphasis on fundamental techniques. Offers an opportunity to complete independent projects in modern chemical biology research.
Prerequisite(s): ((CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C- ); (CHEM 2321 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2331 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3331 with a minimum grade of C- ); (CHEM 3401 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3421 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3431 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- ); (ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1113 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1114 with a minimum grade of C )) or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
CHEM 5625. Chemistry and Design of Protein Pharmaceuticals. (3 Hours)
Covers the chemical transformations and protein engineering approaches to protein pharmaceuticals. Describes protein posttranslational modifications, such as oxidation, glycosylation, formation of isoaspartic acid, and disulfide. Then discusses bioconjugate chemistry, including those involved in antibody-drug conjugate and PEGylation. Finally, explores various protein engineering approaches, such as quality by design (QbD), to optimize the stability, immunogenicity, activity, and production of protein pharmaceuticals. Discusses the underlying chemical principles and enzymatic mechanisms as well.
Prerequisite(s): (CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or graduate program admission); (CHEM 5620 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 5620 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 5621 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 5621 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- )
CHEM 5626. Organic Synthesis 1. (3 Hours)
Surveys types of organic reactions including stereochemistry, influence of structure and medium, mechanistic aspects, and synthetic applications.
CHEM 5627. Mechanistic and Physical Organic Chemistry. (3 Hours)
Surveys foundational concepts of physical organic chemistry, including thermodynamics, kinetics, and solvent and isotope effects. Treats structure/reactivity relationships in the context of how they can be used in understanding and predicting organic chemistry mechanisms. Topics include conformational analysis, molecular orbital theory, aromaticity, orbital symmetry, and how they are applied to understanding organic and organometallic reactions such as aldol, pericyclic, and other stereoselective reactions. Discusses reaction mechanisms that involve intermediates, including anions, cations, radicals, and carbenes.
CHEM 5628. Principles of Spectroscopy of Organic Compounds. (3 Hours)
Studies how to determine organic structure based on proton and carbon nuclear magnetic resonance spectra, with additional information from mass and infrared spectra and elemental analysis. Presents descriptive theory of nuclear magnetic resonance experiments and applications of advanced techniques to structure determination. Includes relaxation, nuclear Overhauser effect, polarization transfer, and correlation in various one- and two- dimensional experiments. Requires graduate students to have one year of organic chemistry or equivalent.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C- or graduate program admission
CHEM 5630. Nucleic Acid Chemistry. (3 Hours)
Offers a broadband introduction to the field of nucleic acid chemistry. Nucleic acids are vital for biology, but their roles have been greatly expanded beyond storage of genetic information. The breadth of utility of nucleic acids stems from a precise understanding of their structures, modern means to synthesize and modify them, and the ability for nucleic acids to engage with varieties of enzymes/proteins and other synthetic/biological systems. Foundational topics include nucleic acid structure, physicochemical properties, syntheses of nucleosides/nucleotides/oligonucleotides, chemical modification of nucleic acids, methods to manipulate and analyze nucleic acids (e.g., PCR, sequencing, and electrophoresis). Advanced topics include nucleic acid therapeutics (e.g., siRNA, antisense technology, CRISPR, and aptamers); DNA damage and repair; and DNA for materials science (e.g., DNA nanotechnology).
CHEM 5636. Statistical Thermodynamics. (3 Hours)
Briefly reviews classical thermodynamics before undertaking detailed coverage of statistical thermodynamics, including probability theory, the Boltzmann distribution, partition functions, ensembles, and statistically derived thermodynamic functions. Reconsiders the basic concepts of statistical thermodynamics from the modern viewpoint of information theory. Presents practical applications of the theory to problems of contemporary interest, including polymers and biopolymers, nanoscale systems, molecular modeling, and bioinformatics.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 3401 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3421 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 3431 with a minimum grade of C- or graduate program admission
CHEM 5638. Molecular Modeling. (3 Hours)
Introduces molecular modeling methods that are basic tools in the study of macromolecules. Is structured partly as a practical laboratory using a popular molecular modeling suite, and also aims to elucidate the underlying physical principles upon which molecular mechanics is based. These principles are presented in supplemental lectures or in laboratory workshops.
CHEM 5640. Biopolymeric Materials. (3 Hours)
Examines the structure, properties, and processing of biomaterials, the forms of matter that are produced by or interact with biological systems. One of the pillars of biomedical engineering is to use naturally derived and synthetic biomaterials to treat, augment, or replace human tissues.
CHEM 5641. Computational Chemistry. (3 Hours)
Introduces basic concepts, methods, techniques, and recent advances in computational chemistry and their relevance to experimental characterizations such as spectroscopy. Topics include electronic structure theory (wave function theory and density functional theory), principles of molecular dynamics simulations, multiscale modeling, machine learning, and quantum computing relevant to computational chemistry. Builds a theoretical foundation for students to properly choose computational methods to solve common research problems in chemistry, biochemistry, and materials science. Also introduces the field of research in computational chemistry. Suitable for advanced undergraduate students and graduate students who plan to conduct research in the field of computational chemistry or plan to utilize computational techniques to complement experimental research in the molecular sciences.
CHEM 5642. Photochemistry Fundamentals and Applications. (3 Hours)
Describes fundamental science of light-activated chemistry and photochemistry applications. Topics include organic and inorganic photochemistry and their applications in solar energy, solar fuels, photocatalysis, bioimaging, photochemotherapy, pigments, and photonics.
Prerequisite(s): (CHEM 1151 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of D- ) or graduate program admission
CHEM 5643. Plastics Sustainability and Circular Economy: A Chemical Perspective. (3 Hours)
Explores the measures taken by both academia and industry to address plastic pollution and to integrate these materials into circular economy systems. Examines plastic pollution from a chemical perspective by delving into the properties of polymers and their composites at the molecular level, aiming to understand the root causes of this pervasive problem. Offers students an opportunity to obtain a deeper understanding of the challenges posed by plastic pollution and the innovative solutions being developed to combat it.
CHEM 5648. Chemical Principles and Application of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics. (3 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to obtain a comprehensive grounding in the chemistry of drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics (DMPK) and its application to drug design and optimization. Multiple rounds of chemical synthesis and testing are usually required to discover new drugs with the appropriate balance of properties such as potency and selectivity, efficacy in preclinical models of disease, safety, and pharmacokinetics. Introduces students to modern tools and concepts utilized to screen for favorable DMPK properties, as well as methods to predict human PK from in vitro and preclinical data. Examines the linkage between drug levels in the body, pharmacodynamic response (PK/PD), and drug-drug interactions in the context of the iterative process of chemical drug synthesis.
CHEM 5649. Numerical Strategies and Data Analytics for Chemical Sciences. (4 Hours)
Introduces a broad range of numerical methods for solving large-scale, data-driven problems that arise in chemical engineering, chemistry, biochemistry, and other chemical sciences. Offers students an opportunity to obtain a detailed understanding of the derivation, analysis, and use of these numerical methods and learn how these lay the foundations to machine learning techniques. Topics include numerical programming logic, linear and nonlinear algebraic equations, polynomial fitting, numerical calculus, optimization techniques, and large-scale data analysis. Applies to a broad field of chemical and biochemical sciences, where large-scale multivariate data analyses and pattern extraction are key components.
Prerequisite(s): ((MATH 1341 with a minimum grade of D- ; MATH 1342 with a minimum grade of D- ) or (MATH 2321 with a minimum grade of D- ; MATH 2341 with a minimum grade of D- )) or graduate program admission
CHEM 5651. Materials Chemistry of Renewable Energy. (3 Hours)
Studies renewable energy in terms of photovoltaics, photoelectrochemistry, fuel cells, batteries, and capacitors. Focuses on the aspects of each component and their relationships to one another.
Prerequisite(s): ((CHEM 2313 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 2317 with a minimum grade of C- ); CHEM 3403 with a minimum grade of C- ) or graduate program admission
CHEM 5653. Electrochemistry of Renewable Energy Devices. (1 Hour)
Presents the electrochemistry of renewable energy, an extremely interdisciplinary science encompassing sensors, surface technology, materials science, microsystems technology, nanotechnology, energy storage, and conversion. Offers hands-on experience with characterization of energy storage and conversion devices. Emphasizes photovoltaics and batteries.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 5614 with a minimum grade of C+ or CHEM 5614 with a minimum grade of C+ or CHEM 5651 with a minimum grade of C+ or CHEM 5651 with a minimum grade of C+
CHEM 5655. Molecular Symmetry and Group Theory. (3 Hours)
Covers symmetry operations; point groups and classification of molecules into point groups; as well as matrix representation of symmetry operations, orthogonality theorem, and its use in determining irreducible representation spanned by a basis. Studies decomposition of reducible representation and direct products, characters and character tables, and reviews quantum mechanics. Also covers infrared and Raman spectroscopy, normal modes of vibrations, determining symmetry of vibrations, the role of symmetry in selection rules, LCAO MO theory, Hückel method, electronic spectroscopy, and vibronic spectroscopy and symmetry.
CHEM 5660. Analytical Biochemistry. (3 Hours)
Covers the analysis of biological molecules, which include nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and metabolites. Discusses isolation, characterization, and quantification of these molecules.
CHEM 5670. Global Biogeochemistry. (4 Hours)
Examines the biological, chemical, and physical interactions that shape our global environment. These interactions combine in the global biogeochemical cycles. Industrial emission of gases, use of fertilizers and plastics, and the expansion of cities are altering the biogeochemical cycling of the elements carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus at rates unprecedented in the geological record. Uses lectures and the latest update to Chapter 6, “Carbon and Other Biogeochemical Cycles,” of the International Panel on Climate Change report to explore the main interactions between human activity, biogeochemical change, and climate. Discusses primary literature to delve deeper into these interactions.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
CHEM 5672. Organic Synthesis 2. (3 Hours)
Continues CHEM 5626. Surveys types of organic reactions including stereochemistry, influence of structure and medium, mechanistic aspects, and synthetic applications.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 5626 with a minimum grade of C- or CHEM 5626 with a minimum grade of D
CHEM 5676. Bioorganic Chemistry. (3 Hours)
Covers host guest complexation by crown ethers, cryptands, podands, spherands, and so forth; molecular recognition including self-replication; peptide and protein structure; coenzymes and metals in bioorganic chemistry; nucleic acid structure; interaction of DNA with proteins and small molecules including DNA-targeted drug design; catalytic RNA; and catalytic antibodies.
Prerequisite(s): (CHEM 5626 with a minimum grade of C- ; CHEM 5627 with a minimum grade of C- ) or graduate program admission
CHEM 5688. Principles of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. (3 Hours)
Presents the physical principles underlying magnetic resonance spectroscopy, including Fourier transform theory, classical and quantum-mechanical treatments of spin angular momentum, the Bloch equations, and spin relaxation. Covers fundamental concepts in time domain magnetic resonance methods, including pulse sequences, selective pulses, phase cycling, coherence pathways, field gradients, and nonuniform sampling. Surveys the NMR methods most commonly applied to chemical structural analysis, including pure shift NMR; 2D correlation (COSY, DQF-COSY, TOCSY, HSQC, HMBC) methods; and cross-relaxation (NOESY, ROESY) methods.
CHEM 5904. Seminar. (1 Hour)
Focuses on oral reports by master of science and PlusOne participants on current research topics in chemistry and chemical biology. May be repeated up to two times.
CHEM 5976. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated without limit.
CHEM 5984. Research. (1-6 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct research under faculty supervision. May be repeated up to three times for up to 6 total credits.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/chemistry-chemical-biology/chemistry-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Chemistry Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
CHEM 1000 | Chemistry/Chemical Biology at Northeastern | 1 |
or INSC 1000 | Science at Northeastern | |
Experiential Learning Introduction | ||
EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op | 1 |
General Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
CHEM 2161 and CHEM 2162 and CHEM 2163 | Concepts in Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 2161 and Recitation for CHEM 2161 | 5 |
Organic Chemistry | ||
CHEM 2315 and CHEM 2316 and CHEM 2324 | Organic Chemistry 1 for Chemistry Majors and Lab for CHEM 2315 and Recitation for CHEM 2315 | 6 |
CHEM 2317 and CHEM 2318 and CHEM 2325 | Organic Chemistry 2 for Chemistry Majors and Lab for CHEM 2317 and Recitation for CHEM 2317 | 6 |
Analytical Chemistry | ||
CHEM 2321 and CHEM 2322 and CHEM 2323 | Analytical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 2321 and Recitation for CHEM 2321 | 5 |
Biochemistry | ||
CHEM 5621 and CHEM 5622 | Principles of Chemical Biology and Lab for CHEM 5621 | 4 |
Inorganic Chemistry | ||
Complete one of the following courses: | 5 | |
Inorganic Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 3501 and Recitation for CHEM 3501 | ||
Introduction to Bioinorganic Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 3505 and Recitation for CHEM 3505 | ||
Senior Research/Capstone | ||
CHEM 4750 | Senior Research | 4 |
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Mathematics | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Physics | ||
PHYS 1151 and PHYS 1152 and PHYS 1153 | Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | 5 |
PHYS 1155 and PHYS 1156 and PHYS 1157 | Physics for Engineering 2 and Lab for PHYS 1155 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155 | 5 |
Concentrations
Students may add an optional concentration. Students working toward a concentration must declare it with their advisor for it to be added to their academic record.
No Concentration
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Physical Chemistry | ||
CHEM 3401 and CHEM 3402 | Chemical Thermodynamics and Kinetics and Lab for CHEM 3401 | 5 |
CHEM 3403 and CHEM 3404 | Quantum Chemistry and Spectroscopy and Lab for CHEM 3403 | 5 |
Advanced Chemistry | ||
Choose two of the following: | 8-12 | |
Bioanalytical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 3331 | ||
Organic Chemistry 3: Organic Chemistry of Drug Design and Development and Lab for CHEM 4456 | ||
Introduction to Spectroscopy of Organic Compounds and Identification of Organic Compounds | ||
Protein Chemistry |
Concentration in Chemical Biology
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Physical Chemistry | ||
CHEM 3431 and CHEM 3432 | Physical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 3431 | 5 |
Advanced Chemistry | ||
CHEM 4456 and CHEM 4457 | Organic Chemistry 3: Organic Chemistry of Drug Design and Development and Lab for CHEM 4456 | 6 |
Choose one of the following: | 3 | |
Introduction to Glycobiology and Glycoprotein Analysis | ||
Protein Chemistry | ||
Chemistry and Design of Protein Pharmaceuticals | ||
Nucleic Acid Chemistry | ||
Additional Supporting Courses | ||
BIOL 1111 and BIOL 1112 | General Biology 1 and Lab for BIOL 1111 | 5 |
BIOL 1113 and BIOL 1114 | General Biology 2 and Lab for BIOL 1113 | 5 |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
Concentration in Materials Chemistry
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Physical Chemistry | ||
CHEM 3401 and CHEM 3402 | Chemical Thermodynamics and Kinetics and Lab for CHEM 3401 | 5 |
CHEM 3403 and CHEM 3404 | Quantum Chemistry and Spectroscopy and Lab for CHEM 3403 | 5 |
Advanced Chemistry | ||
CHEM 4628 and CHEM 4629 | Introduction to Spectroscopy of Organic Compounds and Identification of Organic Compounds | 6 |
Choose one of the following: | 3 | |
Polymer Chemistry | ||
Biopolymeric Materials | ||
Choose one of the following: | 3-4 | |
Materials Chemistry of Renewable Energy | ||
Materials Characterization Techniques | ||
Additional Supporting Courses | ||
ME 2340 and ME 2341 | Introduction to Material Science and Lab for ME 2340 | 5 |
Chemistry Major Credit Requirement
Complete a minimum of 76 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
134 total semester hours required
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Please note that these are sample plans of study. While the requirements are the same for all students, individual schedules may vary.
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
CHEM 1000 or INSC 1000 | 1 | CHEM 2315 | 4 | Open | Open | ||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | CHEM 2316 | 2 | ||||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | CHEM 2324 | 0 | ||||
CHEM 1163 | 0 | MATH 1342 | 4 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | PHYS 1151 | 3 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | PHYS 1152 | 1 | ||||
Elective 1 | 4 | PHYS 1153 | 1 | ||||
Elective 2 | 4 | ||||||
18 | 19 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
CHEM 2161 | 4 | CHEM 2321 | 4 | Open | Co-op | 0 | |
CHEM 2162 | 1 | CHEM 2322 | 1 | ||||
CHEM 2163 | 0 | CHEM 2323 | 0 | ||||
CHEM 2317 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||
CHEM 2318 | 2 | Elective 4 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 2325 | 0 | Elective 5 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1155 | 3 | Elective 6 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1156 | 1 | ||||||
PHYS 1157 | 1 | ||||||
Elective 3 | 4 | ||||||
20 | 18 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | CHEM 3401 | 4 | Elective 8 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
CHEM 3402 | 1 | Elective 9 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 3501 | 4 | ||||||
CHEM 3502 | 1 | ||||||
CHEM 3503 | 0 | ||||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | ||||||
Elective 7 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 18 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | CHEM 3403 | 4 | Open | Co-op | 0 | |
CHEM 3404 | 1 | ||||||
Chemistry Elective | 3-6 | ||||||
Elective 10 | 4 | ||||||
Elective 11 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16-19 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | CHEM 4750 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 5621 | 3 | ||||||
CHEM 5622 | 1 | ||||||
Chemistry Elective | 5-6 | ||||||
Elective 12 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 17-18 | ||||||
Total Hours: 134-138 |
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
CHEM 1000 or INSC 1000 | 1 | CHEM 2315 | 4 | PHYS 1155 | 3 | Open | |
CHEM 1161 | 4 | CHEM 2316 | 2 | PHYS 1156 | 1 | ||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | CHEM 2324 | 0 | PHYS 1157 | 1 | ||
CHEM 1163 | 0 | MATH 1342 | 4 | Elective 3 | 4 | ||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | PHYS 1151 | 3 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | PHYS 1152 | 1 | ||||
Elective 1 | 4 | PHYS 1153 | 1 | ||||
Elective 2 | 4 | ||||||
18 | 19 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
CHEM 2161 | 4 | CHEM 2321 | 4 | Elective 8 | 4 | Co-op | |
CHEM 2162 | 1 | CHEM 2322 | 1 | Elective 9 | 4 | ||
CHEM 2163 | 0 | CHEM 2323 | 0 | ||||
CHEM 2317 | 4 | CHEM 3401 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 2318 | 2 | CHEM 3402 | 1 | ||||
CHEM 2325 | 0 | EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||
Elective 4 | 4 | Elective 6 | 4 | ||||
Elective 5 | 4 | Elective 7 | 4 | ||||
19 | 19 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | CHEM 3403 | 4 | Elective 10 | 4 | Co-op | ||
CHEM 3404 | 1 | Elective 11 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 3501 | 4 | ||||||
CHEM 3502 | 1 | ||||||
CHEM 3503 | 0 | ||||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | ||||||
CHEM Elective | 3-6 | ||||||
0 | 17-20 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | CHEM 4750 | 4 | |||||
CHEM 5621 | 3 | ||||||
CHEM 5622 | 1 | ||||||
CHEM Elective | 5-6 | ||||||
Elective 12 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 17-18 | ||||||
Total Hours: 134-138 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/chemistry-chemical-biology/chemistry-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Due to curricular overlap, the chemistry minor is not available to biochemistry majors.
Required Courses
Students must take either General Chemistry 1 (CHEM 1211) and General Chemistry 2 (CHEM 1214) or General Chemistry for Science Majors (CHEM 1161).
Note: Engineering students may take General Chemistry for Engineers (CHEM 1151) in place of General Chemistry 1 (CHEM 1211) and General Chemistry 2 (CHEM 1214) or General Chemistry for Science Majors (CHEM 1161).
Excluded: Undergraduate Research (CHEM 4901) Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 (CHEM 4970), Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 (CHEM 4971) or other research courses from approved electives.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
General Chemistry | ||
Choose one option. | 4-10 | |
General Chemistry | ||
General Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 1211 | ||
General Chemistry 2 and Lab for CHEM 1214 | ||
Chemistry for Science Majors | ||
General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 | ||
Chemistry for Engineers | ||
General Chemistry for Engineers | ||
or other Chemistry and Chemical Biology approved course | ||
Organic Chemistry | ||
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | 5 |
CHEM 2313 and CHEM 2314 | Organic Chemistry 2 and Lab for CHEM 2313 | 5 |
Analytical Chemistry | ||
CHEM 2321 and CHEM 2322 | Analytical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 2321 (Analytical Chemistry) | 5 |
Physical Chemistry | ||
CHEM 3431 and CHEM 3432 | Physical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 3431 | 5 |
Engineering students may substitute the following course: | ||
Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics | ||
Advanced Lab | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Quantum Chemistry and Spectroscopy and Lab for CHEM 3403 | ||
Organic Chemistry 3: Organic Chemistry of Drug Design and Development and Lab for CHEM 4456 |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/chemistry-chemical-biology/environmental-chemistry-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Note: No more than two courses (totaling 8 SH to 10 SH) may double count with any major degree requirements.
Required Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Environmental Chemistry Core | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Environmental Engineering Chemistry | ||
Environmental Geochemistry | ||
Chemistry Core | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Analytical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 2321 and Recitation for CHEM 2321 | ||
Bioanalytical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 3331 | ||
Research Experience | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Senior Research | ||
Undergraduate Research | ||
Directed Study | ||
Research | ||
Directed Study | ||
Earth and Environmental Science Capstone | ||
or ENVR 4997 | Senior Thesis | |
Directed Study |
Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two of the following: | 8-9 | |
Environmental Engineering Chemistry (If not used to satisfy Environmental Chemistry Core) | ||
Environmental Pollution: Fate and Transport | ||
Environmental Sampling and Analysis and Lab for CIVE 5300 | ||
Global Oceanic Change | ||
Environmental Geochemistry (If not used to satisfy Environmental Chemistry Core) | ||
Applied Hydrogeology and Lab for ENVR 4500 | ||
Environmental Pollution | ||
Wetlands | ||
Soil Science |
GPA Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA required in all major courses
Credit Requirement
Minimum of 21 hours required
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/
Interdisciplinary Majors
- American Sign Language and Linguistics, BS
- Behavioral Neuroscience, BS
- Behavioral Neuroscience and Design, BS
- Behavioral Neuroscience and Philosophy, BS
- Biochemistry, BS
- Bioengineering and Biochemistry, BSBioE
- Chemical Engineering and Biochemistry, BSChE
- Computer Science and Behavioral Neuroscience, BS
- Computer Science and Linguistics, BS
- Data Science and Behavioral Neuroscience, BS
- Data Science and Biochemistry, BS
- Data Science and Linguistics, BS
- Interdisciplinary Studies, BS
- Linguistics, BS
- Linguistics and Communication Studies, BA
- Linguistics and Cultural Anthropology, BS
- Linguistics and English, BA
- Linguistics and Psychology, BS
- Linguistics and Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology, BS
- Spanish and Linguistics, BA
- Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology and Behavioral Neuroscience, BS
Interdisciplinary Minors
Behavioral Neuroscience Courses
BNSC 1000. Behavioral Neuroscience at Northeastern. (1 Hour)
Introduces first-year and new transfer students to the major and the field of behavioral neuroscience and to the professional and academic resources available to students at Northeastern University. Acquaints students with their faculty, advisors, and fellow students; provides an initial orientation to undergraduate research, cooperative education, study abroad, and other experiential learning options; familiarizes students with academic support resources and leadership opportunities; provides grounding in the culture and values of the university community —in short, familiarizes students with all skills needed to become a successful university student.
BNSC 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BNSC 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BNSC 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BNSC 4900. Behavioral Neuroscience Capstone. (1 Hour)
Designed as an integrative capstone experience for behavioral neuroscience students who are also enrolled in approved research courses where they conduct original research under the direction of an approved mentor. Students gain experience in writing a research proposal, conducting the proposed research, producing a research report, and presenting their work. Students engage in solving novel problems while reflecting on and integrating their prior learning in the discipline. Requires writing with revision and oral presentation. Offers students an opportunity to refine reflection and communication skills through formal and informal presentations, discussions, and critique.
Prerequisite(s): (BIOL 4991 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or BNSC 4991 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or BNSC 4994 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 4991 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGW 3307 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 3315 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 3302 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
BNSC 4950. Seminar. (1-4 Hours)
Offers an in-depth study of selected topics.
BNSC 4970. Junior/Senior Honors Project 1. (4 Hours)
Focuses on in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Combined with Junior/Senior Project 2 or college-defined equivalent for 8-credit honors project. May be repeated without limit.
BNSC 4971. Junior/Senior Honors Project 2. (4 Hours)
Focuses on second semester of in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Requires a 3.500 GPA. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): BNSC 4970 with a minimum grade of D- or BNSC 4991 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Integration Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
BNSC 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BNSC 4991. Research. (4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct research under faculty supervision.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
BNSC 4994. Internship. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity for internship work. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
Biochemistry Courses
BIOC 1000. Biochemistry at Northeastern. (1 Hour)
Introduces first-year students to the major and the field of biochemistry and to the professional and academic resources available to students at Northeastern University. Acquaints students with their faculty, advisors, and fellow students; provides an initial orientation to undergraduate research, cooperative education, and other experiential learning options; helps develop the academic skills necessary to succeed; provides grounding in the culture and values of the university community; and assists in interpersonal skill development—in short, familiarizes students with the resources and skills needed to become a successful university student.
BIOC 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BIOC 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BIOC 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BIOC 4900. Biochemistry Capstone. (1 Hour)
Designed for students who are also enrolled in approved 4-semester-hour research courses in which they each conduct original experimental work under the direction of an approved mentor. Requires reflection by students on their various educational experiences, extensive research of scientific questions related to these experiences (with the research itself carried out in the approved research course), and development of an original research report. Required components include writing with revision and a major oral presentation. Offers students an opportunity to hone reflection and communication skills through formal and informal presentations, class discussion, and critique. Requires concurrent registration in BIOC 4991, BIOC 4994, BIOL 4991, CHEM 4991, or other 4-SH research course approved by the Biochemistry Director.
Prerequisite(s): (BIOC 4991 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or BIOC 4994 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 4991 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 4991 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGW 3302 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 3307 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 3315 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
BIOC 4970. Junior/Senior Honors Project 1. (4 Hours)
Focuses on an in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Requires dean’s office approval. Can be combined with Junior/Senior Project 2 or college-defined equivalent for 8-credit honors project.
BIOC 4971. Junior/Senior Honors Project 2. (4 Hours)
Focuses on second semester of in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student's major field. Requires Dean’s office approval.
Prerequisite(s): (BIOC 4970 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOC 4991 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 4970 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 4991 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 4750 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 4901 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 4970 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGW 3302 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 3307 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 3315 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Integration Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
BIOC 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BIOC 4991. Research. (4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct research under faculty supervision. May be repeated without limit. Cannot be a paid experience.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
BIOC 4994. Internship. (4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity for students who have completed a co-op to undertake an unpaid internship. May be repeated twice for credit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
Linguistics Courses
LING 1000. Linguistics at Northeastern. (1 Hour)
Introduces first-year linguistics majors to the discipline, the department, and the University as a whole; offers students an opportunity to familiarize themselves with the skills needed for success as a university student.
LING 1150. Introduction to Language and Linguistics. (4 Hours)
Explores linguistics, the scientific study of language. Major topics include phonetics (production of speech sounds), phonology (sound systems in languages), morphology (structure of words), syntax (grammatical relationships between words and sentences), and semantics (meaning of words and sentences). Other topics may be surveyed such as the relationship between language and culture, language use within speech communities, languages in contact, the study of language change, language and brain, animal communication, and first language acquisition.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World, NUpath Societies/Institutions
LING 1449. English Now and Then. (4 Hours)
Introduces the field of linguistics from current and historical perspectives. Covers the scientific study of language: phonetics (production of speech sounds), phonology (sound systems in languages), morphology (structure of words), syntax (grammatical relationships between words and sentences), and semantics (meaning of words and sentences). These linguistic structures provide the basis for exploring the origins and development of the English language. Emphasizes both the major structural changes English has experienced over time, as well as the sociohistorical contexts that gave rise to these changes.
Attribute(s): NUpath Interpreting Culture, NUpath Natural/Designed World
LING 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
LING 2350. Linguistic Analysis. (4 Hours)
Builds on the foundations of linguistic analysis developed in LING 1150. Offers students an opportunity to obtain a foundational basis for future study by focusing on four core areas of linguistics: phonetics, phonology, morphology, and syntax. Students hone their analytic abilities as they work with increasingly complex datasets. Adopting a descriptive, nontheoretical approach, students conduct linguistic research through a semester-long analysis of a world language.
Prerequisite(s): LING 1449 with a minimum grade of D- or LING 1150 with a minimum grade of D-
LING 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
LING 3150. Field Linguistics. (4 Hours)
Exposes students to the basic techniques of field methods with the goal of reinforcing the fundamental skills used in linguistic analysis. Through readings, discussions, and practical experience, students explore best practices in conducting linguistic field work: working with a native speaker consultant, eliciting linguistic structures, managing data effectively, analyzing the data collected, and presenting findings formally. May be repeated two times.
Prerequisite(s): LING 1449 with a minimum grade of D- or LING 1150 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Integration Experience
LING 3250. Discourse Analysis. (4 Hours)
Introduces approaches to the analysis of interpersonal and institutional discourse and offers multiple opportunities to carry out small-scale analyses of talk-in-interaction. Major topics include conversational involvement and inference, conversation analysis, intertextuality, linguistic politeness, conversational style, framing, positioning, identity construction, epistemics, and conversations within institutional contexts.
Prerequisite(s): LING 1150 with a minimum grade of D- or LING 1449 with a minimum grade of D-
LING 3412. Language and Culture. (4 Hours)
Explores the complex, often inexplicit relationship between language and culture, using a variety of methods drawn from the fields of anthropological linguistics and sociolinguistics. Questions may include: How do language and thought interact? How is language used to create and maintain social institutions and individual personae? How is language used differently by and across gender, ethnicity, and social class?.
Prerequisite(s): (LING 1449 with a minimum grade of D- or ENGL 1150 with a minimum grade of D- or LING 1150 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1113 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1114 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Difference/Diversity, NUpath Interpreting Culture, NUpath Writing Intensive
LING 3420. Phonetics. (4 Hours)
Surveys phonetics, the study of speech sounds, including articulatory, acoustic, and auditory phonetics. Articulatory phonetics topics include anatomy and physiology; cross-linguistic consonant and vowel articulation; aerodynamics of speech production; coarticulation phenomena; and phonetics of supersegmentals such as syllables, stress, tone, and pitch accent. Acoustic phonetics topics include the physics of sound waves, reading spectrograms, and performing acoustic analyses. Auditory phonetics topics include audition and speech perception.
Prerequisite(s): LING 2350 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
LING 3422. Phonology. (4 Hours)
Examines phonology, the study of the mental representation, organization, and patterning of sounds in human language. Major topics include phonological typology, phonemes, underlying and surface representations, phonological rules and alternations, natural classes of sounds, syllables and prosody, autosegmental phonology, rule-based vs. constraint-based approaches, morphophonology, diachronic phonology, and current theoretic models of sound systems.
Prerequisite(s): LING 2350 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
LING 3424. Morphology. (4 Hours)
Introduces morphology, the study of the structure, distributional behavior, and use of words. Covers descriptive methods of analysis, hierarchical word structure, morphological processes and rules, productivity, morphological change, and the interaction of morphology with phonology and syntax. Introduces major contemporary theories, including split morphology and single-component architecture.
Prerequisite(s): LING 2350 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
LING 3440. Language Acquisition. (4 Hours)
Examines the milestones and developmental patterns of typical first language acquisition across the linguistic system. Details the patterns and expected norms for the acquisition and development of speech perception and production, semantics, morphosyntax, pragmatics, and the lexicon. Considers biological, environmental, linguistic, and other factors that contribute to the processes of language acquisition, as well as major theories in the field. Students gain hands-on experience transcribing, analyzing, and evaluating child language data throughout the semester.
Prerequisite(s): LING 1449 with a minimum grade of D- or LING 1150 with a minimum grade of D-
LING 3442. Sociolinguistics. (4 Hours)
Focuses on why people choose to say things in different ways in different situations. Examines language behavior in its social context and outlines the linguistic constructs that allow conversation to occur, the types of variation that can occur in registers and dialects, and the possible reasons for choosing different linguistic varieties. Also explores linguistic variation in relation to social context, gender, socioeconomic class, race, and ethnicity.
Prerequisite(s): (ENGL 1150 with a minimum grade of D- or LING 1449 with a minimum grade of D- or LING 1150 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1113 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1114 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Difference/Diversity, NUpath Societies/Institutions, NUpath Writing Intensive
LING 3446. Language Endangerment and Vitality. (4 Hours)
Examines the sociolinguistics of endangered languages. Major topics include global language vitality, language endangerment, ethnography, language death and its relation to loss of cultural identity within communities, and language planning and policy. Discusses these topics theoretically and in cross-linguistic perspective by examining various case studies.
Prerequisite(s): LING 1449 with a minimum grade of D- or LING 1150 with a minimum grade of D-
LING 3450. Syntax. (4 Hours)
Introduces syntax, the theory of sentence structure. Explores how to do syntactic analysis using linguistic evidence and argumentation. Focuses primarily on English, with some discussion on the syntax of other languages. Other topics include syntactic universals and the relation between syntax and semantics.
Prerequisite(s): LING 2350 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
LING 3452. Semantics. (4 Hours)
Focuses on meaning and how it is expressed in language—through words, sentence structure, intonation, stress patterns, and speech acts. Considers how content, logic, and speakers’ and listeners’ assumptions affect what sentences can mean and how linguistic meaning is determined by one’s perceptual system or culture.
Prerequisite(s): LING 1449 with a minimum grade of D- or LING 1150 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
LING 3454. History of English. (4 Hours)
Surveys the linguistic and social history of the English language from its Indo-European beginnings to the present. Examines the changes that have occurred in the sound system, word and sentence structures, vocabulary, semantics, and spelling from a formal linguistic perspective. Considers issues in language change—the influence of foreign invasion and migration, differences in dialect, and the emergence of English as a “world” language.
Prerequisite(s): LING 1449 with a minimum grade of D- or LING 1150 with a minimum grade of D-
LING 3456. Language and Gender. (4 Hours)
Investigates the relationship between language and gender. Topics include how men and women talk; the significant differences and similarities in how they talk, why men and women talk in these ways, and social biases in the structure of language itself.
Prerequisite(s): (LING 1449 with a minimum grade of D- or LING 1150 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1113 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1114 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Difference/Diversity, NUpath Societies/Institutions, NUpath Writing Intensive
LING 3458. Topics in Linguistics. (4 Hours)
Focuses on one of a range of topics from the perspective of current linguistics, such as American dialectics, contemporary syntactic theory, language and law, women’s and men’s language, words and word structures, or issues in linguistics and literature. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): LING 1449 with a minimum grade of D- or LING 1150 with a minimum grade of D-
LING 3460. Historical Linguistics. (4 Hours)
Introduces diachronic linguistics, the study of language change over time. Surveys common changes in the areas of sound systems, word and sentence structure, and semantic meaning. Introduces methodologies to access earlier stages of language, including the comparative method and internal reconstruction. Other topics include linguistic borrowing, analogical change, linguistic paleontology, and areal diffusion.
Prerequisite(s): LING 2350 with a minimum grade of D-
LING 3462. Constructed Languages. (4 Hours)
Focuses on constructed languages (conlangs): linguistic systems that have emerged from conscious creation, rather than natural development. Surveys a number of well-known conlangs. Examines the motivations for their creation, their internal linguistic structures, and their status and effectiveness within the cultures (real or fictional) for which they were designed. Building on their knowledge of linguistic structure, offers students an opportunity to develop their own constructed languages.
Prerequisite(s): LING 2350 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Creative Express/Innov, NUpath Interpreting Culture
LING 3550. Syntax 2. (4 Hours)
Introduces topics in advanced syntax, building on students’ knowledge of basic concepts in phrase and sentence structure. Explores a wide range of complex syntactic constructions, and considers how current theory can be applied to numerous cross-linguistic syntactic phenomena.
Prerequisite(s): LING 3450 with a minimum grade of D-
LING 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
LING 4654. Seminar in Linguistics. (4 Hours)
Explores a topic in current linguistics research. Requires prior completion of either two 3000-level LING courses or one 3000-level LING course and permission of instructor. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): LING 2350 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
LING 4891. Research Seminar in Linguistics. (4 Hours)
Offers individualized research experience on a chosen topic under the direction of a faculty member. Also includes group meetings of students and the faculty member to study relevant research methods, to discuss relevant research literature, and to present research progress and results. Research content and requisites depend on the instructor, and prior arrangements should be made with the faculty member well in advance of registration. May be repeated up to eight times.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
LING 4970. Junior/Senior Honors Project 1. (4 Hours)
Focuses on in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Combined with Junior/Senior Project 2 or college-defined equivalent for 8-credit honors project. May be repeated without limit.
LING 4971. Junior/Senior Honors Project 2. (4 Hours)
Focuses on second semester of in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): LING 4970 with a minimum grade of D-
LING 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
LING 4991. Directed Study Research. (4 Hours)
Offers individualized research experience on a chosen topic under the direction of a faculty member. Research content and requisites depend on the instructor, and prior arrangements should be made with the faculty member well in advance of registration.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
LING 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated twice.
LING 4996. Experiential Education Directed Study. (4 Hours)
Draws upon the student’s approved experiential activity and integrates it with study in the academic major. Fulfills the college’s experiential education requirement. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/behavioral-neuroscience-bs/
The behavioral neuroscience curriculum focuses on the biological bases underlying behavior under healthy and pathological states. The program combines the disciplines of biology and psychology with a strong background in basic physical sciences and mathematics to understand how the behavior of humans and animals is controlled by physiological systems. Students gain a solid foundation in the anatomical and functional specializations of the brain and neural mechanisms from neurons to circuits to networks. Students then choose from a range of advanced electives to delve deeply into diverse specializations and current topics in the field.
Note: Due to overlap in course content, double majoring in behavioral neuroscience with any of the following majors is not permitted: psychology, biology, cell and molecular biology, or biochemistry.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Behavioral Neuroscience Foundation Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | Foundations of Biology and Lab for BIOL 1107 | 5 |
BIOL 2299 | Inquiries in Biological Sciences | 4 |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
BIOL 3405 | Neurobiology | 4 |
BNSC 1000 | Behavioral Neuroscience at Northeastern | 1 |
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
PSYC 3200 | Clinical Neuroanatomy | 4 |
PSYC 3458 | Biological Psychology | 4 |
Complete one of the following. Students who receive transfer credit for the Advanced Placement Statistics exam may complete the 1 SH PSYC 2315 course (requires department permission): | 4-5 | |
Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | ||
Statistics in Psychological Research |
Behavioral Neuroscience Advanced Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete four of the following (at least two must be numbered in the 4000–5999 range): | 16-17 | |
Current Topics in Behavioral Neuroscience | ||
Neural Systems and Behavior | ||
Developmental Neurobiology | ||
Neurobiology of Cognitive Decline | ||
Neurobiology of Learning and Memory | ||
Comparative Neurobiology | ||
Cell and Molecular Neuroscience | ||
Multidisciplinary Approaches in Motor Control | ||
Neuropsychology of Fear | ||
Behavioral Endocrinology | ||
Brain, Behavior, and Immunity | ||
Psychopharmacology | ||
Neuropsychology | ||
Clinical Neuroscience | ||
Quantitative Topics in Psychology and Behavioral Neuroscience | ||
Behavioral Genetics | ||
Functional Human Neuroanatomy and Lab for PT 5410 | ||
One course may be an experiential course: | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 | ||
Research | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 | ||
Research | ||
Internship | ||
Undergraduate Teaching Experience | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 | ||
Directed Study Research |
Behavioral Neuroscience Elective Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Psychology Elective | ||
An additional behavioral neuroscience core course may be used to fulfill this requirement. | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Developmental Psychology | ||
Clinical Psychology and Mental Health | ||
Learning and Motivation | ||
Learning Principles and Behavior Analysis | ||
Sensation and Perception | ||
Psychology of Language | ||
Cognition | ||
Environmental Psychology | ||
Cognitive Development | ||
Biology Elective | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy | ||
Current Topics in Biology | ||
Current Topics in Cell and Molecular Biology | ||
Microbiology and Lab for BIOL 3421 | ||
Mammalian Systems Physiology | ||
Biochemistry and Lab for BIOL 3611 | ||
Cell and Molecular Biology | ||
Stem Cells and Regeneration | ||
Medical Microbiology | ||
Biological Imaging | ||
Advanced Genomics | ||
Cell and Molecular Biology of Aging | ||
Research Elective | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Biology Project Lab | ||
Laboratory in Research Design | ||
Laboratory in Learning and Motivation | ||
Laboratory in Biological Psychology | ||
Laboratory in Cognition | ||
Laboratory in Sensation and Perception | ||
Laboratory in Affective Science | ||
Laboratory in Life-Span Emotional Development | ||
Laboratory in Psychophysiology | ||
Capstone Course | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Biology Capstone | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Research and Behavioral Neuroscience Capstone | ||
Internship and Behavioral Neuroscience Capstone | ||
PSYC 4654 to PSYC 4678 | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 |
Behavioral Neuroscience Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | 5 |
CHEM 2313 and CHEM 2314 | Organic Chemistry 2 and Lab for CHEM 2313 | 5 |
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
or MATH 1241 | Calculus 1 | |
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Programming with Data and Data Science Programming Practicum | ||
Physics for Life Sciences 1 and Lab for PHYS 1145 | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 and Recitation for PHYS 1161 | ||
Physics 1 for Bioscience and Bioengineering and Lab for PHYS 1171 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1171 |
Behavioral Neuroscience Major Credit/GPA Requirement
Complete 90 semester hours in the major with a minimum 2.000 GPA.
Due to overlap in course content, double majoring in behavioral neuroscience with any of the following majors is not permitted: psychology, biology, cell and molecular biology, or biochemistry.
Program Requirement
132 total semester hours required
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | 5 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | 5 | Vacation | 0 |
BNSC 1000 | 1 | CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | 5 | Advanced PSYC elective | 4 | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | 5 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | PSYC 3458 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 17 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 3405 | 4 | BIOL 2309 | 4 | PSYC 2320 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
CHEM 2313 and CHEM 2314 | 5 | DS 2000 and DS 2001 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
PSYC 3200 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||
Elective | 4 | BNS advanced course 1 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | Advanced BIOL elective | 5 | ENGW 3307 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
BNS advanced course 2 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
BNS advanced course 3 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | BNS advanced course 4 | 4 | ||||
Elective (online) | 4 | Capstone | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
4 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 132 |
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | 5 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | Vacation | 0 | Vacation | 0 |
BNSC 1000 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | 5 | PSYC 3458 | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | 5 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | CHEM 2313 and CHEM 2314 | 5 |
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | 5 | PSYC 2320 | 4 | ||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
PSYC 3200 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
19 | 0 | 0 | 9 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2309 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Vacation | 0 |
BIOL 3405 | 4 | ||||||
Advancd PSYC elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
DS 2000 and DS 2001 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Elective | 4 |
BNS advanced course 1 | 4 | ||||||
BNS advanced course 2 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 4 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | BNS advanced course 4 | 4 | ||||
Advanced BIOL elective | 5 | Capstone course | 4 | ||||
BNS advanced course 3 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
17 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 132 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/behavioral-neuroscience-design-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Behavioral Neuroscience Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Behavioral Neuroscience Overview | ||
BNSC 1000 | Behavioral Neuroscience at Northeastern 1 | 1 |
EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op 2 | 1 |
COS Foundations | ||
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | Foundations of Biology and Lab for BIOL 1107 | 5 |
BIOL 2299 | Inquiries in Biological Sciences | 4 |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | 5 |
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Mathematics Foundation | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
or MATH 1241 | Calculus 1 | |
Statistics Foundation | ||
Complete one of the following. Students who receive transfer credit for the Advanced Placement Statistics exam may complete the 1 SH PSYC 2315 course (requires department permission). | 4-5 | |
Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | ||
Statistics in Psychological Research | ||
Behavioral Neuroscience Foundations | ||
PSYC 3200 | Clinical Neuroanatomy | 4 |
PSYC 3452 | Sensation and Perception | 4 |
PSYC 3458 | Biological Psychology | 4 |
Behavioral Neuroscience Core Courses | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Neurobiology | ||
Current Topics in Behavioral Neuroscience | ||
Neural Systems and Behavior | ||
Developmental Neurobiology | ||
Neurobiology of Cognitive Decline | ||
Neurobiology of Learning and Memory | ||
Cell and Molecular Neuroscience | ||
Multidisciplinary Approaches in Motor Control | ||
Neuropsychology of Fear | ||
Behavioral Endocrinology | ||
Brain, Behavior, and Immunity | ||
Psychopharmacology | ||
Neuropsychology | ||
Clinical Neuroscience | ||
Behavioral Genetics |
- 1
Students entering through CAMD may take Art and Design at Northeastern (ARTF 1000).
- 2
Students entering through CAMD may take Professional Development for Co-op (EEAM 2000).
Design Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Art + Design Fundamentals Required | ||
ARTF 1220 | Elements of Visual Composition (with optional ARTF 1221) | 2 |
Art + Design Fundamentals Electives | ||
Complete three of the following: | 6 | |
Representational Drawing | ||
Abstract Drawing | ||
Making with Form and Materials and Making with Form and Materials Tools | ||
Making with Video, Sound, and Animation and Making with Video, Sound, and Animation Tools | ||
Designing Interactive Experiences and Designing Interactive Experiences Tools | ||
Design Required | ||
ARTG 1001 and ARTG 1002 | Design Perspectives: An Introduction to Design in the World and Seminar for Design Perspectives | 4 |
ARTG 1270 and ARTG 1271 | Design: Process + Practices and Studio for Design: Process + Practices | 4 |
ARTG 1290 and ARTG 1291 | Typographic Systems and Studio for Typographic Systems | 4 |
Art + Design History Elective | ||
Complete any one ARTH course. ARTH 1001 Visual Intelligence and ARTH 1002 Seminar in Visual Intelligence is recommended to fulfill requirement. | 4 | |
Art + Design Elective | ||
Complete any one ARTD, ARTE, ARTF(4SH), ARTG, ARTH, ARTS, EXRE, or GAME course for which prerequisites have been met and not used to fulfill other requirements of the program. If any topics course is completed more than once, the additional completions may be allowed toward the electives. | 4 | |
Degree Capstone Project | ||
ARTG 4550 | Design Degree Project | 4 |
Design Option
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following options: | 8 | |
Experience Design Option | ||
Experience Design Principles | ||
Topics In Experience Design Inquiry | ||
Graphic Design Option | ||
Graphic Design Principles | ||
Topics In Graphic Design Inquiry | ||
Information Design Option | ||
Information Design Principles | ||
Topics in Information Design Inquiry | ||
Interaction Design Option | ||
Interaction Design Principles (with optional ARTG 2401) | ||
Topics In Interaction Design Inquiry |
Integrative Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Integrative Courses | ||
ARTG 5310 | Visual Cognition | 4 |
BIOL 5587 | Comparative Neurobiology | 4 |
or PSYC 4622 | Laboratory in Sensation and Perception | |
or PSYC 4656 | Seminar in Biological Psychology | |
or PSYC 4668 | Seminar in Sensation and Perception | |
The following course is already required in the major: | ||
Design Degree Project | ||
Upper-Division Elective | ||
Complete one course that is not already taken as long as prerequisites have been met: | 4 | |
Any ARTG course not already required or ARTG 5000 Topics in Design | ||
BIOL 3403 or higher | ||
BNSC 4991 or higher | ||
PSYC 3404 or higher |
Writing Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
College Writing | ||
ENGW 1111 | First-Year Writing | 4 |
or ENGW 1102 | First-Year Writing for Multilingual Writers | |
Advanced Writing in the Disciplines | ||
ENGW 3307 | Advanced Writing in the Sciences | 4 |
or ENGW 3314 | Advanced Writing in the Arts, Media, and Design | |
or ENGW 3315 | Interdisciplinary Advanced Writing in the Disciplines |
Required General Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete 16 semester hours of general electives. | 16 |
Major Credit Hour Requirement
110 semester hours in the major
Program Requirements
133 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ARTG 1001 and ARTG 1002 | 4 | ARTF 1220 (with optional ARTF 1221) | 2 | ARTG 1270 and ARTG 1271 | 4 | ARTG 1290 and ARTG 1291 | 4 |
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | 5 | ARTF elective | 2 | PSYC 2320 | 4 | PSYC 3452 | 4 |
BNSC 1000 or ARTF 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | 5 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||
19 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | 5 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | ARTF elective | 2 |
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | 5 | ARTF elective | 2 | ||||
EESC 2000 or EEAM 2000 | 1 | General elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC 3458 | 4 | ||||||
Design option course 1 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ARTG 5310 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3315 | 4 |
PSYC 3200 | 4 | General elective | 4 | ||||
Design option course 2 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
BIOL 5587 | 4 | ARTG 4550 | 4 | ||||
A+D elective | 4 | BNS core course | 4 | ||||
ARTH elective | 4 | Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||
BNS core course | 4 | General elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 134 |
Sample Plan of Study: Five Years, Three Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ARTG 1001 and ARTG 1002 | 4 | ARTF 1220 (with optional ARTF 1221) | 2 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | 5 | ARTF elective | 2 | ||||
BNSC 1000 or ARTF 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | 5 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||
19 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ARTG 1270 and ARTG 1271 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | PSYC 2320 | 4 |
ARTG 1290 and ARTG 1291 | 4 | ARTF elective | 2 | ||||
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | 5 | ARTF elective | 2 | ||||
EESC 2000 or EEAM 2000 | 1 | ||||||
PSYC 3452 | 4 | ||||||
18 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | 5 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Vacation | |
PSYC 3200 | 4 | ||||||
PSYC 3458 | 4 | ||||||
Design option course 1 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ARTH elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3315 | 4 |
A+D elective | 4 | General elective | 4 | ||||
BNS core course | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
ARTG 5310 | 4 | ARTG 4550 | 4 | ||||
BIOL 5587 | 4 | A+D elective | 4 | ||||
ARTH elective | 4 | BNS core course | 4 | ||||
Design option level 2 | 4 | Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 134 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/behavioral-neuroscience-minor/
The behavioral neuroscience minor allows all students, including those majoring in biology and psychology, the opportunity to complement their major plans of study with an interdisciplinary minor in behavioral neuroscience.
Students are required to take one intermediate course followed by four behavioral neuroscience core courses, two from each of the parent departments of the discipline (i.e., psychology and biology).
Intermediate Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
PSYC 3458 | Biological Psychology | 4 |
or BIOL 3405 | Neurobiology |
Psychology Core Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Clinical Neuroanatomy | ||
Neuropsychology of Fear | ||
Behavioral Endocrinology | ||
Brain, Behavior, and Immunity | ||
Psychopharmacology | ||
Neuropsychology | ||
Clinical Neuroscience | ||
Behavioral Genetics |
Biology Core Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Current Topics in Behavioral Neuroscience | ||
Neural Systems and Behavior | ||
Developmental Neurobiology | ||
Neurobiology of Cognitive Decline | ||
Neurobiology of Learning and Memory | ||
Comparative Neurobiology | ||
Cell and Molecular Neuroscience | ||
Multidisciplinary Approaches in Motor Control |
Credit/GPA Requirement
20 total semester hours required
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/behavioral-neuroscience-philosophy-bs/
The behavioral neuroscience and philosophy combined degree program engages students in the interdisciplinary study across the biology, psychology, and philosophy departments. The major provides rigorous training in both disciplines with a specific focus on understanding seminal questions concerning human nature and the mind. Courses in the basic sciences will lay a strong foundation in biology, chemistry, and data analytics that are relevant to neuroscience. In behavioral neuroscience core courses, students will examine the structure and function of the human nervous system in order to explore brain mechanisms that give rise to behavioral functions, including cognitive processes as well as pathological states. In philosophy courses, successful students will develop core analytics skills, including ethical reasoning; learn to recognize and question deep theoretical assumptions at the heart of scientific theories and practice; and explore the social and ethical dimensions of neuroscience and scientific practice more broadly. The fields of behavioral neuroscience and philosophy are further bridged with coursework that is designed to enable students to apply neuroscientific concepts to philosophical, moral, and ethical questions.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Behavioral Neuroscience Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Behavioral Neuroscience Overview | ||
BNSC 1000 | Behavioral Neuroscience at Northeastern 1 | 1 |
EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op 2 | 1 |
COS Foundations | ||
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | Foundations of Biology and Lab for BIOL 1107 | 5 |
BIOL 2299 | Inquiries in Biological Sciences | 4 |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | 5 |
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Mathematics Foundation | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
or MATH 1241 | Calculus 1 | |
Statistics Foundation | ||
Complete one of the following. Students who receive transfer credit for the Advanced Placement Statistics exam may complete the 1-semester-hour PSYC 2315 course (requires department permission): | 4-5 | |
Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | ||
Statistics in Psychological Research | ||
Behavioral Neuroscience Foundations | ||
PSYC 3200 | Clinical Neuroanatomy | 4 |
PSYC 3458 | Biological Psychology | 4 |
Psychology Elective | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
The Moral Mind: The Science Underlying Ethical Decision-Making and Virtuous Character | ||
Developmental Psychology | ||
Clinical Psychology and Mental Health | ||
Learning and Motivation | ||
Learning Principles and Behavior Analysis | ||
Sensation and Perception | ||
Psychology of Language | ||
Cognition | ||
Cognitive Development | ||
Behavioral Neuroscience Advanced Courses | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Neurobiology | ||
Current Topics in Behavioral Neuroscience | ||
Neural Systems and Behavior | ||
Developmental Neurobiology | ||
Neurobiology of Cognitive Decline | ||
Cell and Molecular Neuroscience | ||
Multidisciplinary Approaches in Motor Control | ||
Neuropsychology of Fear | ||
Behavioral Endocrinology | ||
Brain, Behavior, and Immunity | ||
Psychopharmacology | ||
Neuropsychology | ||
Clinical Neuroscience | ||
Behavioral Genetics | ||
Behavioral Neuroscience Upper-Level Elective | ||
Complete one course that is not already taken as long as prerequisites have been met: | 4 | |
BIOL 3403 or higher | ||
BNSC 4991 or higher | ||
PSYC 3404 or higher |
- 1
Students entering through CSSH may take Philosophy at Northeastern (PHIL 1000).
- 2
Students entering through CSSH may take Professional Development for Co-op (EESH 2000).
Philosophy Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Philosophy Foundations | ||
PHIL 1105 | Science and Pseudoscience | 4 |
or PHIL 3050 | Information and Uncertainty | |
PHIL 1115 | Introduction to Logic | 4 |
PHIL 1145 | Technology and Human Values | 4 |
PHIL 2325 | Ancient Philosophy and Political Thought | 4 |
or POLS 2325 | Ancient Philosophy and Political Thought | |
PHIL 2330 | Modern Philosophy | 4 |
Philosophy Restricted Elective | ||
Complete 4 semester hours from the following list, not taken to fulfill other requirements: | 4 | |
Philosophy of Emotions | ||
Scientific Approaches to Philosophy | ||
Moral Philosophy | ||
Theory of Knowledge | ||
Philosophy of Science | ||
Philosophy of Mind | ||
Philosophy of Biology | ||
Additional Electives | ||
Complete two additional PHIL courses not taken to fulfill other requirements. | 8 |
Integrative Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
BIOL 4709 | Neurobiology of Learning and Memory | 4 |
or BIOL 3419 | Engaging with Genomics: Ethics Law and Policy | |
or BIOL 5587 | Comparative Neurobiology | |
or PSYC 3545 | Ethics in Animal Research | |
PHIL 4535 | Philosophy of Mind | 4 |
or PHIL 4555 | Philosophy of Biology |
Writing Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
College Writing | ||
ENGW 1111 | First-Year Writing | 4 |
or ENGW 1102 | First-Year Writing for Multilingual Writers | |
Advanced Writing in the Disciplines | ||
ENGW 3307 | Advanced Writing in the Sciences | 4 |
or ENGW 3308 | Advanced Writing in the Social Sciences | |
or ENGW 3309 | Advanced Writing in the Humanities | |
or ENGW 3315 | Interdisciplinary Advanced Writing in the Disciplines |
Required General Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete general electives to meet total required program hours. |
Behavioral Neuroscience GPA Requirement
A minimum 2.000 GPA in all behavioral neuroscience courses is required.
Major Credit-Hour Requirement
92 total semester hours required in the major
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | 5 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | PHIL 2325 | 4 | Vacation | |
BNSC 1000 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | PSYC elective | 4 | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | 5 | PSYC 3458 | 4 | ||||
PHIL 1145 | 4 | MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | 5 | CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | 5 | PSYC 2320 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHIL 1115 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | General elective | 4 | ||
PHIL 1105 | 4 | PHIL 2330 | 4 | ||||
PSYC 3200 | 4 | PHIL restricted elective | 4 | ||||
BNS core course | 4 | ||||||
17 | 18 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | BNS core course | 4 | PHIL elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHIL elective | 4 | General elective | 4 | ENGW 3315 | 4 | ||
General elective | 4 | ||||||
General elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 4 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | BIOL 4709 or 5587 | 4 | ||||
PHIL 4535 or 4555 | 4 | ||||||
BNS upper-level elective | 4 | ||||||
General elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
Sample Plan of Study: Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | 5 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | Vacation | General elective | 4 | |
BNSC 1000 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | 5 | PSYC 3458 | 4 | ||||
PHIL 1145 | 4 | MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 16 | 0 | 4 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | 5 | CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | 5 | Vacation | Co-op | 0 | |
PHIL 1105 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||
PHIL 1115 | 4 | PHIL 2330 | 4 | ||||
PSYC 3200 | 4 | PSYC 2320 | 4 | ||||
PHIL restricted elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 18 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | BNS core course | 4 | PHIL 2325 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
General elective | 4 | General elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC elective | 4 | ||||||
General elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | BIOL 4709 or 5587 | 4 | Vacation | Co-op | 0 | |
BNS core course | 4 | ||||||
PHIL elective | 4 | ||||||
ENGW 3315 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | PHIL 4535 or 4555 | 4 | ||||
BNS upper-level elective | 4 | ||||||
PHIL elective | 4 | ||||||
General elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/biochemistry-bs/
Biochemistry focuses on the chemical processes occurring in the wide variety of living systems and touches essentially all aspects of our own lives. Our Northeastern program engages you in two integrated paths to a career in biochemistry: rigorous course work that is designed to prepare you to interpret the ever-expanding knowledge base and hands-on learning that positions you to leverage cutting-edge technology to solve fundamental problems in the chemistry of life.
After required basic course work in biochemistry, biology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics, our majors select elective courses that reflect many areas of biochemistry including neuroscience, bioorganic chemistry, stem cell and regenerative biology, microbial biotechnology, and systems biology and engineering.
In our interdisciplinary program, students take advantage of faculty-mentored research guided by investigators from bioengineering, biology, chemical engineering, chemistry, pharmaceutical sciences, physics, psychology, and other academic units.
Northeastern’s signature co-op program provides complementary opportunities in world-class biotechnology companies, hospitals, and research facilities as close as Boston and as far as your global interest takes you.
Our biochemistry program prepares students to enter the job market directly or go on to graduate, medical, veterinary, dental, law, or business school. Our graduates are qualified for a wide range of careers that span academics, industry, government, and medicine, working in laboratory or clinical research, regulation and quality control, production, marketing, or information systems.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Biochemistry Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
BIOC 1000 | Biochemistry at Northeastern | 1 |
or INSC 1000 | Science at Northeastern | |
Biology Foundations | ||
Foundations | ||
BIOL 1107 and BIOL 1108 | Foundations of Biology and Lab for BIOL 1107 | 5 |
Inquiries | ||
BIOL 2299 | Inquiries in Biological Sciences | 4 |
Techniques | ||
BIOL 2309 | Biology Project Lab | 4 |
Genetics and Molecular Biology | ||
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
General Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
Organic Chemistry 1 | ||
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | 5 |
Organic Chemistry 2 | ||
CHEM 2313 and CHEM 2314 | Organic Chemistry 2 and Lab for CHEM 2313 | 5 |
Physical Chemistry | ||
CHEM 3431 and CHEM 3432 | Physical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 3431 | 5 |
Biochemistry Courses | ||
BIOL 3611 and BIOL 3612 | Biochemistry and Lab for BIOL 3611 | 5 |
BIOL 4707 | Cell and Molecular Biology | 4 |
Complete one of the following: | 3-5 | |
Bioanalytical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 3331 | ||
Protein Chemistry | ||
Experiential Learning Introduction | ||
EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op | 1 |
Capstone | ||
Please complete one of the following options to fulfill the capstone requirement: | 4-5 | |
Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Research and Biochemistry Capstone | ||
Internship and Biochemistry Capstone | ||
Biology Capstone |
Biology and Chemistry Advanced Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete 3 courses for a total of at least 10 semester hours. One must be a lecture-based BIOL course and one must be a lecture-based CHEM course. The third may be BIOL, CHEM, or Research: | 10 | |
Biology | ||
BIOL 2311 to BIOL 5999 | ||
Chemistry | ||
CHEM 2310 to CHEM 5999 | ||
Research Option | ||
Up to 4 semester hours may be biochemistry-related research for credit: | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 | ||
Research | ||
Internship |
Biochemistry Breadth Courses
A minimum GPA of 2.000 is required for the biochemistry breadth courses.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Mathematics Courses | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Physics Courses | ||
Physics 1 | ||
Complete a lecture and lab set for Physics 1: | 5 | |
Physics for Life Sciences 1 and Lab for PHYS 1145 | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 | ||
Physics 1 for Bioscience and Bioengineering and Lab for PHYS 1171 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1171 | ||
Physics 2 | ||
Complete a lecture and lab set for Physics 2: | 5 | |
Physics for Life Sciences 2 and Lab for PHYS 1147 | ||
Physics for Engineering 2 and Lab for PHYS 1155 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155 | ||
Physics 2 and Lab for PHYS 1165 | ||
Physics 2 for Bioscience and Bioengineering and Lab for PHYS 1175 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1175 | ||
Intermediate or Advanced Science | ||
Complete one course from the following: | 4-5 | |
BIOL 2301 to BIOL 5999 | ||
CHEM 2311 to CHEM 5999 | ||
EEMB 2290 to EEMB 5999 | ||
ENVR 2310 to ENVR 5999 | ||
MATH 2280 to MATH 5999 | ||
PHYS 2303 to PHYS 5999 | ||
PSYC 2320 to PSYC 5999 |
Biochemistry Major Credit/GPA Requirements
Complete 86 semester hours in the major with a cumulative GPA of 2.000.
Due to overlap in course content, double majoring in biochemistry and biology, biochemistry and cell and molecular biology, biochemistry and behavioral neuroscience, or biochemistry and chemistry is not permitted.
Program Requirement
136 total semester hours required
Please note that these are sample plans of study. While the requirements are the same for all students, individual schedules may vary.
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOC 1000 or INSC 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | Elective 3 | 4 |
BIOL 1107 | 4 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | Elective 4 | 4 |
BIOL 1108 | 1 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | Elective 2 | 4 | ||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | MATH 1342 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1163 | 0 | ||||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
Elective 1 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 17 | 9 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2309 | 4 | BIOL 3611 | 4 | BIOL 4707 | 4 | Co-op | |
CHEM 2313 | 4 | BIOL 3612 | 1 | Elective 8 | 4 | ||
CHEM 2314 | 1 | EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 1151 | 3 | PHYS 1155 | 3 | ||||
PHYS 1152 | 1 | PHYS 1156 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 1153 | 1 | PHYS 1157 | 1 | ||||
Elective 5 | 4 | Elective 6 | 4 | ||||
Elective 7 | 4 | ||||||
18 | 19 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | CHEM 3431 | 4 | COS adv elective | 4 | Co-op | ||
CHEM 3432 | 1 | Elective 10 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 5620 (or CHEM 3331 and CHEM 3332) | 3 | ||||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | ||||||
Elective 9 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | CHEM 4750 (or BIOL 4701 or BIOC 4971 or xxxx4991+BIOC 4900) | 4 | |||||
BIOL or CHEM advanced elective | 5 | ||||||
BIOL or CHEM advanced elective | 5 | ||||||
BIOL or CHEM advanced elective | 5 | ||||||
0 | 19 | ||||||
Total Hours: 141 |
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOC 1000 or INSC 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | Elective 3 | 4 |
BIOL 1107 | 4 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | Elective 4 | 4 |
BIOL 1108 | 1 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | Elective 2 | 4 | ||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | MATH 1342 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1163 | 0 | ||||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
Elective 1 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 17 | 9 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2309 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | BIOL 3611 | 4 | ||
CHEM 2313 | 4 | BIOL 3612 | 1 | ||||
CHEM 2314 | 1 | Elective 6 | 4 | ||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
PHYS 1151 | 3 | ||||||
PHYS 1152 | 1 | ||||||
PHYS 1153 | 1 | ||||||
Elective 5 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 0 | 0 | 9 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 3307 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | BIOL 4707 | 4 | ||
PHYS 1155 | 3 | Elective 8 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1156 | 1 | ||||||
PHYS 1157 | 1 | ||||||
COS adv elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective 7 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
CHEM 3431 | 4 | CHEM 4750 (or BIOL 4701 or BIOC 4971 or xxxx4991+BIOC 4900) | 4 | ||||
CHEM 3432 | 1 | BIOL or CHEM advanced elective | 5 | ||||
CHEM 5620 (or CHEM 3331 and CHEM 3332) | 3 | BIOL or CHEM advanced elective | 5 | ||||
BIOL or CHEM advanced elective | 5 | Elective 10 | 4 | ||||
Elective 9 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 18 | ||||||
Total Hours: 141 |
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOC 1000 or INSC 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | Vacation | |
BIOL 1107 | 4 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | ||
BIOL 1108 | 1 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | Elective 2 | 4 | ||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | MATH 1342 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1163 | 0 | ||||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
Elective 1 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 17 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2309 | 4 | BIOL 3611 | 4 | COS adv elective | 4 | Co-op | |
CHEM 2313 | 4 | BIOL 3612 | 1 | Elective 6 | 4 | ||
CHEM 2314 | 1 | EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 1151 | 3 | PHYS 1155 | 3 | ||||
PHYS 1152 | 1 | PHYS 1156 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 1153 | 1 | PHYS 1157 | 1 | ||||
Elective 3 | 4 | Elective 4 | 4 | ||||
Elective 5 | 4 | ||||||
18 | 19 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | BIOL 4707 | 4 | Vacation | Co-op | |||
CHEM 3431 | 4 | ||||||
CHEM 3432 | 1 | ||||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | ||||||
Elective 7 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | CHEM 5620 (or CHEM 3331 and CHEM 3332) | 3 | Vacation | Co-op | |||
BIOL or CHEM advanced elective | 5 | ||||||
Elective 8 | 4 | ||||||
Elective 9 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | CHEM 4750 (or BIOL 4701 or BIOC 4971 or xxxx4991+BIOC 4900) | 4 | |||||
BIOL or CHEM advanced elective | 5 | ||||||
BIOL or CHEM advanced elective | 5 | ||||||
Elective 10 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 18 | ||||||
Total Hours: 141 |
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOC 1000 | 1 | BIOL 2299 | 4 | BIOL 2301 | 4 | Vacation | |
BIOL 1107 | 4 | CHEM 2311 | 4 | BIOL 2302 | 1 | ||
BIOL 1108 | 1 | CHEM 2312 | 1 | Elective 2 | 4 | ||
CHEM 1161 | 4 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1162 | 1 | MATH 1342 | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1163 | 0 | ||||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||||
Elective 1 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 17 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2309 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | BIOL 3611 | 4 | ||
CHEM 2313 | 4 | BIOL 3612 | 1 | ||||
CHEM 2314 | 1 | Elective 4 | 4 | ||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
PHYS 1151 | 3 | ||||||
PHYS 1152 | 1 | ||||||
PHYS 1153 | 1 | ||||||
Elective 3 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 0 | 0 | 9 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 3307 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | Vacation | |||
PHYS 1155 | 3 | ||||||
PHYS 1156 | 1 | ||||||
PHYS 1157 | 1 | ||||||
COS adv elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective 5 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 4707 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | Vacation | |||
CHEM 3431 | 4 | ||||||
CHEM 3432 | 1 | ||||||
CHEM 5620 (or CHEM 3331 and CHEM 3332) | 3 | ||||||
Elective 6 | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
BIOL or CHEM advanced elective | 5 | CHEM 4750 (or BIOL 4701 or BIOC 4971 or xxxx4991+BIOC 4900) | 4 | ||||
BIOL or CHEM advanced elective | 5 | BIOL or CHEM advanced elective | 5 | ||||
Elective 7 | 4 | Elective 9 | 4 | ||||
Elective 8 | 4 | Elective 10 | 4 | ||||
18 | 17 | ||||||
Total Hours: 141 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/biochemistry-minor/
The biochemistry minor allows students to engage in interdisciplinary study of biochemistry to complement their major plans of study.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
The biochemistry minor is not available to majors in biology, cell and molecular biology, biochemistry, or any combined major that involves biochemistry, due to curricular overlap.
Required Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Core Courses | ||
BIOL 3611 and BIOL 3612 | Biochemistry and Lab for BIOL 3611 | 5 |
BIOL 4707 | Cell and Molecular Biology | 4 |
CHEM 5620 | Protein Chemistry | 3 |
Biology Core Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following (other advanced BIOL courses may be accepted at the discretion of the biochemistry director): | 4-5 | |
Human Parasitology | ||
Bioethics | ||
Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy | ||
Neurobiology | ||
Current Topics in Biology | ||
Current Topics in Cell and Molecular Biology | ||
Current Topics in Organismal and Population Biology | ||
Current Topics in Behavioral Neuroscience | ||
Microbiology and Lab for BIOL 3421 | ||
Neural Systems and Behavior | ||
Mammalian Systems Physiology | ||
Developmental Neurobiology | ||
Current Trends in Reproductive Sciences | ||
Neurobiology of Cognitive Decline | ||
Neurobiology of Learning and Memory | ||
Clinical Embryology | ||
Endocrinology | ||
Stem Cells and Regeneration | ||
Inventions in Microbial Biotechnology | ||
Medical Microbiology | ||
Biological Imaging | ||
Immunology | ||
Evolution | ||
Comparative Neurobiology | ||
Advanced Genomics | ||
Cell and Molecular Biology of Aging | ||
Cell and Molecular Neuroscience | ||
Immunotherapies of Cancer and Infectious Disease | ||
Multidisciplinary Approaches in Motor Control |
Chemistry Core Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following (other advanced CHEM courses may be accepted at the discretion of the biochemistry director): | 3-6 | |
Analytical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 2321 | ||
Bioanalytical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 3331 | ||
Environmental Geochemistry | ||
Physical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 3431 | ||
Organic Chemistry 3: Organic Chemistry of Drug Design and Development and Lab for CHEM 4456 | ||
Introduction to Spectroscopy of Organic Compounds and Identification of Organic Compounds | ||
Introduction to Glycobiology and Glycoprotein Analysis | ||
Analytical Separations | ||
Principles of Mass Spectrometry | ||
Optical Methods of Analysis | ||
Electroanalytical Chemistry | ||
Principles of Chemical Biology and Lab for CHEM 5621 | ||
Chemistry and Design of Protein Pharmaceuticals | ||
Organic Synthesis 1 | ||
Mechanistic and Physical Organic Chemistry | ||
Principles of Spectroscopy of Organic Compounds | ||
Nucleic Acid Chemistry | ||
Statistical Thermodynamics | ||
Molecular Modeling | ||
Biopolymeric Materials | ||
Computational Chemistry | ||
Chemical Principles and Application of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics | ||
Molecular Symmetry and Group Theory | ||
Analytical Biochemistry | ||
Global Biogeochemistry | ||
Bioorganic Chemistry | ||
Principles of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/interdisciplinary-studies-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete all courses in one of the following focus areas: | 32–56 | |
Biology | ||
Business Administration | ||
Computer Science | ||
Health Science | ||
Psychology | ||
Public Health |
Restricted Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete 12 semester hours of coursework from one or more subject codes in the focus area chosen above. | 12 | |
Complete 12 semester hours of coursework from subject codes outside of the subject codes of courses in the focus area chosen above. | 12 |
Minor Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following minors outside of the chosen focus area above. Other minors not listed here may be selected upon approval by the program advisor. | 16–30 | |
Supporting Courses
Some of the following requirements may be fulfilled by courses in the focus area chosen above.
General Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete any courses in the 1000–5999 range, in any subject code, to fulfill total required program hours and fulfill NUpath requirements not met through focus area courses, the restricted electives, the minor, or the supporting courses. |
Major GPA/Grade Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA required
Program Requirements
128 total semester hours required
Biology Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete 32 semester hours of coursework preapproved by the program advisor. | 32 |
Business Administration Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ACCT 1201 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
ACCT 2301 | Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors | 4 |
FINA 2201 | Financial Management | 4 |
INNO 2301 | Innovation! | 4 |
INTB 1203 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | 4 |
MGSC 2301 | Business Statistics | 4 |
MISM 2301 | Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies | 4 |
MKTG 2201 | Introduction to Marketing | 4 |
ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
SCHM 2301 | Supply Chain and Operations Management | 4 |
STRT 4501 | Strategy in Action | 4 |
Computer Science Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Computer Science Focus Area Required Courses | ||
CS 1800 | Discrete Structures | 4 |
CS 1802 | Seminar for CS 1800 | 1 |
CS 2500 and CS 2501 | Fundamentals of Computer Science 1 and Lab for CS 2500 | 5 |
CS 2510 and CS 2511 | Fundamentals of Computer Science 2 and Lab for CS 2510 | 5 |
CS 3000 | Algorithms and Data | 4 |
CS 3200 | Introduction to Databases | 4 |
CS 3500 and CS 3501 | Object-Oriented Design and Lab for CS 3500 | 5 |
CS 4500 | Software Development | 4 |
or CS 4530 | Fundamentals of Software Engineering | |
Khoury College Elective | ||
Complete 8 semester hours of upper-division CS, CY, DS, or IS courses that are not already required above. Choose courses from the following ranges: | 8 | |
CS 2502 or higher, except CS 5010 | ||
CY 2000 of higher, except CY 4930 |
Health Science Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
BIOL 1111 and BIOL 1112 | General Biology 1 and Lab for BIOL 1111 | 5 |
BIOL 1113 and BIOL 1114 | General Biology 2 and Lab for BIOL 1113 | 5 |
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
PHTH 1260 | The American Healthcare System | 4 |
PHTH 1261 | Comparative Healthcare Systems | 4 |
PHTH 2210 | Foundations of Biostatistics | 4 |
PHTH 2300 | Communication Skills for the Health Professions | 4 |
or PHTH 2301 | Communication Skills for the Health Professions—Global | |
PHTH 2350 | Community and Public Health | 4 |
or PHTH 2351 | Community and Public Health - Global | |
PHTH 2515 | Healthcare Policy and Administration | 4 |
PHTH 4120 | Global Perspectives on Discrimination and Health | 4 |
PHTH 4202 | Principles of Epidemiology in Medicine and Public Health | 4 |
PHTH 4540 | Health Education and Program Planning | 4 |
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Public Health Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Public Health Courses | ||
PHTH 1260 | The American Healthcare System | 4 |
PHTH 1261 | Comparative Healthcare Systems | 4 |
PHTH 2210 | Foundations of Biostatistics | 4 |
PHTH 2300 | Communication Skills for the Health Professions | 4 |
or PHTH 2301 | Communication Skills for the Health Professions—Global | |
PHTH 2350 | Community and Public Health | 4 |
or PHTH 2351 | Community and Public Health - Global | |
PHTH 2515 | Healthcare Policy and Administration | 4 |
PHTH 4120 | Global Perspectives on Discrimination and Health | 4 |
PHTH 4202 | Principles of Epidemiology in Medicine and Public Health | 4 |
PHTH 4540 | Health Education and Program Planning | 4 |
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Biology Requirement | ||
Select one of the following options: | 8–9 | |
Option 1 | ||
Microbes and Society | ||
or BIOL 1143 | Biology and Society | |
The Human Organism | ||
Option 2 | ||
General Biology 1 and Lab for BIOL 1111 | ||
General Biology 2 and Lab for BIOL 1113 | ||
Social Science Selectives | 7–8 | |
Complete one introductory course as preapproved by the program advisor. | ||
Complete one upper-level course as preapproved by the program advisor. |
Psychology Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete 32 semester hours of coursework preapproved by the program advisor. | 32 |
Sample Plan of Study
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | Focus area courses (2) | 8 | Focus area course | 4 | Restricted elective | 4 |
Focus area courses (2) | 8 | Restricted elective | 4 | Open elective | 4 | Open elective | 4 |
Restricted elective | 4 | Open elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Focus area course | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | Open elective | 4 | ||
Restricted elective | 4 | Writing-intensive course | 4 | ||||
Minor course | 4 | ||||||
Open elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 3315 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | Writing-intensive course | 4 | ||
Focus area course | 4 | Open elective | 4 | ||||
Restricted elective | 4 | ||||||
Minor course | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Focus area courses (2) | 8 | Capstone | 4 | ||||
Restricted elective | 4 | Focus area courses (2) | 8 | ||||
Minor course | 4 | Minor course | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 128 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-bs/
The major in linguistics is designed to provide students with a strong foundation in the study of linguistics at both the structural and social levels. Coursework on the structural side focuses on the internal structures that make up language and the methods and theories used to identify and understand these core structures (for example, in courses covering phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics); while coursework on the social side emphasizes the methods and theories that are used to study and interpret patterns of social interaction at the linguistic level (for example, in courses covering language and culture, sociolinguistics, and language and gender). Additional coursework draws from related fields to further develop students’ understanding of the broad spectrum of language-related domains (for example, psycholinguistics, language acquisition, and historical linguistics, among other topics).
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Linguistics Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Foundational Courses | ||
LING 1150 | Introduction to Language and Linguistics | 4 |
or LING 1449 | English Now and Then | |
LING 2350 | Linguistic Analysis | 4 |
LING 3412 | Language and Culture | 4 |
Linguistic Structure | ||
LING 3420 | Phonetics | 4 |
LING 3422 | Phonology | 4 |
LING 3424 | Morphology | 4 |
LING 3450 | Syntax | 4 |
LING 3452 | Semantics | 4 |
Language in Context | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Sociolinguistics | ||
Language and Gender | ||
Language Change | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
History of English | ||
Historical Linguistics | ||
Research Experience | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Field Linguistics | ||
Research Seminar in Linguistics | ||
With prior linguistics program approval, one of the following experiences can be used to fulfill the research experience: | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 and Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Directed Study Research | ||
Linguistics Seminar | ||
Complete at least one seminar (LING 4654 may be repeated with different topics): | ||
LING 4654 | Seminar in Linguistics | 4 |
Linguistics Electives | ||
Complete five electives from the following that have not already been taken to fulfill other major requirements: | 20 | |
LING 3000 to LING 4999 1 | ||
Up to two electives may come from the following list: | ||
ASL Linguistics | ||
Laboratory in Psycholinguistics | ||
Laboratory in Cognition | ||
Seminar in Psycholinguistics | ||
Seminar in Cognition | ||
Seminar in Cognitive Neuroscience | ||
Seminar in Developmental Psychology |
- 1
Please visit the Linguistics Courses page within this catalog to review the list of courses in the LING 3000–LING 4999 range.
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two courses in the same language with a grade of C or higher. Proficiency at elementary level 2 or higher is required. | 8 |
Linguistics Major Credit Requirement
Complete 76 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | LING 2350 | 4 | Vacation | 0 | Vacation | 0 |
INSC 1000 | 1 | Foreign language course | 4 | ||||
LING 1150 | 4 | LING elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign language course | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||
NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
LING 3412 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | Vacation | 0 | Co-op | 0 |
Linguistic structure course | 4 | Language in context course | 4 | ||||
Language change course | 4 | Linguistic structure course | 4 | ||||
NUpath or elective | 4 | Linguistic structure course | 4 | ||||
Linguistics elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3315 | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
Linguistic structure course | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||
Linguistics elective | 4 | ||||||
NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | Linguistic structure course | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
Linguistics elective | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||
NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||||
NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | Linguistics research experience course | 4 | ||||
Linguistics seminar | 4 | ||||||
Linguistics elective | 4 | ||||||
NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
Sample Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | LING 2350 | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | Vacation | 0 |
INSC 1000 | 1 | Foreign language course | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||
LING 1150 | 4 | LING elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign language course | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||
NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
LING 3412 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | NUpath or elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
Linguistic structure course | 4 | Language in context course | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||
Language change course | 4 | Linguistic structure course | 4 | ||||
NUpath or elective | 4 | Linguistic structure course | 4 | ||||
Linguistics elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3315 | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
Linguistic structure course | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||
Linguistic structure course | 4 | ||||||
Linguistics elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | ||
Co-op | 0 | LING 4654 | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||
LING 4891 | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||
Linguistics elective | 4 | ||||||
Linguistics elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | |||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-communication-studies-ba/
In the combined major in linguistics and communication studies, students learn about the formal structures and analysis of human languages across multiple levels (sounds, words, phrases and sentences, meaning) while simultaneously mastering the fundamentals of effective communication and of communication theory and practice. Students receive extensive training in writing and speaking, both for a technical audience and more generally; and they explore the role of language and communication in society, both from a broad theoretical perspective and in narrower, more focused and applied domains.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
BA Language Requirements
All BA students are required to complete the BA degree language requirements, for a total of 12 semester hours of language study or demonstrated equivalent proficiency, as described in Additional Requirements for BA students. Successful demonstration of proficiency does not reduce total minimum semester hours of study required to earn the BA degree.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Linguistics Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Linguistics Foundations | ||
LING 1150 | Introduction to Language and Linguistics | 4 |
LING 2350 | Linguistic Analysis | 4 |
LING 3412 | Language and Culture | 4 |
Linguistic Structure | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Phonetics | ||
Phonology | ||
Morphology | ||
Syntax | ||
Semantics | ||
Linguistics Electives | ||
Complete two courses not used to fulfill other degree requirements from the following options. | 8 | |
LING 3000 to LING 4999 1 | ||
ASL Linguistics |
- 1
Please visit the Linguistics Courses page within this catalog to review the list of courses in the LING 3000 - LING 4999 range.
Communication Studies Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Communication Studies Required Courses | ||
COMM 1101 | Introduction to Communication Studies | 4 |
COMM 1112 | Public Speaking | 4 |
COMM 2301 | Communication Research Methods | 4 |
Foundation Course | ||
Complete one course from the following: | 4 | |
Persuasion and Rhetoric | ||
Communication Theory | ||
Principles of Organizational Communication | ||
Communication in a Digital Age | ||
Cluster Course | ||
Complete one course from the following: | 4 | |
Sex, Relationships, and Communication | ||
Global and Intercultural Communication | ||
Communication and Gender | ||
Communication Law | ||
Free Speech in Cyberspace | ||
Writing-Intensive Course | ||
Complete one course from the following: | 4 | |
Mobile Communication | ||
Health Communication | ||
Interpersonal Communication | ||
Communication and Inclusion | ||
Political Communication | ||
Communication Criticism | ||
Public Relations Principles | ||
Environmental Issues, Communication, and the Media | ||
Free Speech: Law and Practice | ||
Communication and Sexualities | ||
Theories of Conflict and Negotiation | ||
Nonverbal Social Interaction | ||
Youth and Communication Technology | ||
Crisis Communication and Image Management | ||
Communication Studies Electives | ||
Complete two additional COMM courses | 8 |
Integrative Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Sociolinguistics | ||
LING 3442 | Sociolinguistics | 4 |
Communication Studies Integrative Course | ||
Complete one of the following, not used to fulfill above requirements: | 4 | |
Communication Criticism | ||
Contemporary Rhetorical Theory | ||
Capstone Experience | ||
Complete one of the following, not used to fulfill above requirements: | 4 | |
Health Communication Campaigns | ||
Communication and Quality of Life | ||
Contemporary Rhetorical Theory | ||
Strategic Communication Capstone | ||
Online Communities | ||
Seminar in Linguistics |
Communication Studies Grade Requirement
No more than two grades below a C in communication studies courses may be used to fulfill degree requirements.
Linguistics and Communication Studies Combined Major Credit Requirement
Complete 76 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Patterns:
Four Years, Two Summer 2/Fall Co-ops
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
COMM 1101 | 4 | LING 2350 | 4 | COMM Studies Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
COMM 1112 | 4 | LING 3412 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | COMM Studies Foundation Course | 4 | ||||
LING 1000 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
LING 1150 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
COMM 2301 | 4 | LING 3442 (Or Linguistics Elective) | 4 | COMM Studies Elective | 4 | Co-op | |
EEAM 2000 or EESC 2000 | 1 | COMM Studies Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
COMM Studies Cluster Course | 4 | Foreign Language Course | 4 | ||||
Foreign Language Course | 4 | Linguistic Structure or Linguistics Elective | 4 | ||||
Linguistic Structure or Linguistics Elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | ENGW 3315 | 4 | COMM Studies Writing Intensive | 4 | Co-op | ||
LING 3442 (or Linguistics Elective) | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign Language Course | 4 | ||||||
Linguistic Structure or Linguistics Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | COMM 3415 or 4602 | 4 | |||||
COMM Studies Writing Intensive | 4 | ||||||
Integrative Capstone Experience | 4 | ||||||
Linguistic Structure or Linguistics Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
Five Years, Three Summer 2/Fall Co-ops
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
COMM 1101 | 4 | LING 2350 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
COMM 1112 | 4 | LING 3412 | 4 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | COMM Studies Foundation Course | 4 | ||||
LING 1000 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
LING 1150 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
COMM 2301 | 4 | EEAM 2000 or EESC 2000 | 1 | Vacation | Co-op | ||
COMM Studies Cluster Course | 4 | COMM Studies Elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign Language Course | 4 | COMM Studies Elective | 4 | ||||
Linguistic Structure or Linguistics Elective | 4 | Foreign Language Course | 4 | ||||
Linguistic Structure or Linguistics Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | ENGW 3315 | 4 | COMM Studies Elective | 4 | Co-op | ||
LING 3442 (or Linguistics Elective) | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign Language Course | 4 | ||||||
Linguistic Structure or Linguistics Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | LING 3442 (or Linguistics Elective) | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | ||
COMM Studies Writing Intensive | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Linguistic Structure or Linguistics Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | COMM 3415 or 4602 | 4 | |||||
COMM Studies Elective | 4 | ||||||
Integrative Capstone Experience | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-cultural-anthropology-bs/
The combined major in linguistics and cultural anthropology focuses on the relationship of culture to the institutions, interpersonal relations, and practices that make up their social structure while emphasizing the structure of human language and its involvement in social interaction and culture. Students examine how language both reflects and influences cultural phenomena and how it can be used as a tool to study those phenomena; and they apply their interests across a range of connected courses, co-op opportunities, and potential research projects.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Linguistics Major Language Requirement
Complete two courses in the same language with a grade of C or higher. Proficiency at elementary level 2 or higher is required.
Linguistics Requirements
Note: A grade of C or higher is required for all courses in this section.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Linguistics Requirements | ||
LING 1150 | Introduction to Language and Linguistics | 4 |
or LING 1449 | English Now and Then | |
LING 2350 | Linguistic Analysis | 4 |
LING 3442 | Sociolinguistics | 4 |
LING 3456 | Language and Gender | 4 |
Linguistic Structure | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Phonetics | ||
Phonology | ||
Morphology | ||
Syntax | ||
Semantics | ||
Linguistics Research | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Research Seminar in Linguistics | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 and Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Directed Study Research | ||
Linguistics Elective | ||
Complete one elective (any course in the range LING 3000–4999 that hasn't already been taken to fulfill other major requirements, or the following): 1 | 4 | |
ASL Linguistics |
- 1
Please visit the Linguistics Courses page within this catalog to review the list of courses in the LING 3000 - LING 4999 range.
Anthropology Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Foundation Courses | ||
ANTH 1101 | Peoples and Cultures | 4 |
ANTH 2305 | Global Markets and Local Culture | 4 |
ANTH 4600 | Senior Seminar | 4 |
Anthropology Advanced Area Courses | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Ethnography of Southeast Asia | ||
Latin American Society and Development | ||
Anthropology of Africa | ||
Culture and Politics in Modern India | ||
Anthropology Electives | ||
Complete three ANTH courses not already taken. | 12 |
Linguistics/Anthropology Integrative Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Integrative Course | ||
LING 3412 | Language and Culture | 4 |
Anthropology Major Grade Requirement
A GPA of 2.000 for major courses is required.
Linguistics/Anthropology Combined Major Credit Requirement
Complete 76 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ANTH 1101 | 4 | ANTH 2305 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | LING 2350 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
LING 1150 | 4 | LING 3412 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1215 | 4 | Foreign language course | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Foreign language course | 4 | LING 3442 | 4 | Anthropology elective | 4 | Co-op | |
Linguistic structure course | 4 | Linguistic structure course | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
Anthropology elective | 4 | Anthropology elective | 4 | ||||
Linguistics elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | ENGW 3315 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | ||
LING 3456 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Anthropology advanced area course | 4 | ||||||
Linguistic structure course | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | ANTH 4600 | 4 | |||||
Anthropology advanced area course | 4 | ||||||
Anthropology advanced area course | 4 | ||||||
Linguistics research | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 128 |
Four Years, No Co-op
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ANTH 1101 | 4 | ANTH 2305 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | LING 2350 | 4 | ||||
LING 1150 | 4 | LING 3412 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1215 | 4 | Foreign language course | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Foreign language course | 4 | LING 3442 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
Linguistic structure course | 4 | Linguistic structure course | 4 | ||||
Anthropology elective | 4 | Anthropology elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 3315 | 4 | LING 3456 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
Anthropology advanced area course | 4 | Anthropology advanced area course | 4 | ||||
Anthropology elective | 4 | Linguistic structure elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Anthropology advanced area course | 4 | ANTH 4600 | 4 | ||||
Linguistics research | 4 | Linguistics elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 128 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-english-ba/
In the combined major in linguistics and English, students study the structures and analysis of human languages across multiple levels (sounds, words, phrases and sentences, meaning) and apply this knowledge to understanding how the English language works, its rhetorical forms, how it has changed over time, and its cultural context. Students hone their writing skills, develop substantial language-analysis skills, and apply them particularly to English.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
BA Language Requirements
All BA students are required to complete the BA degree language requirements, for a total of 12 semester hours of language study or demonstrated equivalent proficiency, as described in Additional Requirements for BA students. Successful demonstration of proficiency does not reduce total minimum semester hours of study required to earn the BA degree.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Linguistics Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Linguistics Requirements | ||
LING 1150 | Introduction to Language and Linguistics | 4 |
LING 2350 | Linguistic Analysis | 4 |
LING 3412 | Language and Culture | 4 |
LING 3442 | Sociolinguistics | 4 |
Linguistic Structure | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Phonetics | ||
Phonology | ||
Morphology | ||
Syntax | ||
Semantics | ||
Linguistics Electives | ||
Complete two of the following that have not already been taken to fulfill other major requirements: | 8 | |
LING 3000 to LING 4999 1 | ||
ASL Linguistics |
- 1
Please visit the Linguistics Courses page within this catalog to review the list of courses in the LING 3000–LING 4999 range.
English Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
English Course-Level Requirement | ||
At least two of the courses chosen from the English requirements list below must be numbered 3000-4999. | ||
Foundational Courses | ||
ENGL 1160 | Introduction to Rhetoric | 4 |
or ENGL 1410 | Introduction to Research on Writing | |
ENGL 1400 | Introduction to Literary Studies | 4 |
Diversity | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Early African-American Literature | ||
American Women Writers | ||
Multiethnic Literatures of the U.S. | ||
Asian-American Literature | ||
Writing in Global Contexts | ||
Bedrooms and Battlefields: Hebrew Bible and the Origins of Sex, Gender, and Ethnicity | ||
or JWSS 3678 | Bedrooms and Battlefields: Hebrew Bible and the Origins of Sex, Gender, and Ethnicity | |
Modern and Contemporary Jewish Literature | ||
or JWSS 3685 | Modern and Contemporary Jewish Literature | |
Gender and Black World Literatures | ||
Pre-1850 Literature | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
American Literature to 1865 | ||
Introduction to Shakespeare | ||
Early African-American Literature | ||
The American Renaissance | ||
Early Literatures | ||
17th- and 18th-Century Literatures | ||
Topics in 17th- and 18th-Century British Literatures | ||
Emerson and Thoreau | ||
Bedrooms and Battlefields: Hebrew Bible and the Origins of Sex, Gender, and Ethnicity | ||
or JWSS 3678 | Bedrooms and Battlefields: Hebrew Bible and the Origins of Sex, Gender, and Ethnicity | |
Topics in Shakespeare | ||
Post-1850 Literature | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
The Graphic Novel | ||
Contemporary Poetry | ||
Contemporary Fiction | ||
The Modern Bestseller | ||
Postcolonial Literature | ||
Postcolonial Women Writers | ||
American Women Writers | ||
Asian-American Literature | ||
Irish Literary Culture (Abroad) | ||
Contemporary Literature and Art in Israel | ||
20th- and 21st-Century Literatures | ||
Emerson and Thoreau | ||
Modern and Contemporary Jewish Literature | ||
or JWSS 3685 | Modern and Contemporary Jewish Literature | |
20th- and 21st-Century Major Figure | ||
Theories and Methods | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Grammar: The Architecture of English | ||
Introduction to Rhetoric | ||
Introduction to Research on Writing | ||
Reading and Writing in the Digital Age | ||
Science Fiction | ||
What Is Nature? | ||
Boston in Literature | ||
Rhetoric of Law | ||
Technologies of Text | ||
The Practice and Theory of Teaching Writing | ||
Opening the Archive | ||
Film and Text (Abroad) | ||
Narrative Medicine | ||
Topics in Literary Criticism | ||
Writing | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Creative Writing | ||
Style and Editing | ||
Writing and Community Engagement | ||
Writing in Global Contexts | ||
Writing to Heal | ||
Visual Writing | ||
Writing for Social Media: Theory and Practice | ||
Writing Boston | ||
Creative Nonfiction | ||
Poetry Workshop | ||
Fiction Workshop | ||
Writing Seminar | ||
The Writer’s Marketplace | ||
Major Seminar | ||
ENGL 3710 | Major Seminar | 4 |
Electives | ||
Complete one additional ENGL elective at the 2000 level or higher. | 4 |
Linguistics/English Combined Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Integrative Course | ||
LING 3454 | History of English | 4 |
Junior/Senior Seminar | ||
ENGL 4710 | Capstone Seminar | 4 |
or LING 4654 | Seminar in Linguistics | |
Experiential Learning | ||
Complete one of the following options. Courses used to satisfy this requirement may simultaneously satisfy a requirement above: | 0-8 | |
Study Abroad (not a Dialogue) | ||
International Co-op | ||
Research Seminar in Linguistics | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 and Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Directed Study Research |
Linguistics/English Combined Major Credit Requirement
Complete 80 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | ENGL 1400 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
LING 1150 | 4 | LING 2350 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
MATH 1215 | 4 | LING 3412 or 3442 | 4 | ||||
Foreign language core course | 4 | Foreign language core course | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGL 1410 or 1160 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | ENGL elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
LING 3454 | 4 | Diversity course | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
LING structure course | 4 | LING structure course | 4 | ||||
LING elective | 4 | LING elective | 4 | ||||
Theories and methods course | 4 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | LING 3412 or 3442 | 4 | ENGW 3315 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
LING structure course | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENGL 3710 | 4 | ||||||
Pre-1850 literature course | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | Post-1850 literature course | 4 | ||||
Foreign language core course | 4 | ||||||
Junior/senior seminar | 4 | ||||||
Writing course | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 129 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-minor/
The minor in linguistics provides students with an overview of the field, including exposure to both the structural and sociocultural aspects of the study of language. Students have an opportunity to learn the methods of linguistic analysis and to obtain more advanced exposure to various subdomains of linguistics.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated.
Students must complete a minimum of three courses exclusive to this minor beyond the courses required for the student’s declared major(s) and additional minor(s).
Foundational Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
LING 1150 | Introduction to Language and Linguistics | 4 |
or LING 1449 | English Now and Then | |
LING 2350 | Linguistic Analysis | 4 |
Intermediate/Advanced Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete three courses from the following: | 12 | |
ASL Linguistics | ||
LING 3000-4999 1 |
- 1
Please visit the Linguistics Courses page within this catalog to review the list of courses in the LING 3000 - LING 4999 range.
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-psychology-bs/
This combined major is designed to educate students in psychology, linguistics, and the interface between the two disciplines, which are core areas within the field of cognitive science. Students study the formal structures of human language; sociocultural aspects of language use; and the cognitive aspects of language representations, language acquisition, and language processing. Students receive interdisciplinary training in the methods of experimental psychology, psycholinguistics, and linguistic analysis.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Linguistics Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Linguistics Foundations | ||
LING 1150 | Introduction to Language and Linguistics | 4 |
LING 2350 | Linguistic Analysis | 4 |
LING 3412 | Language and Culture | 4 |
Linguistic Structure | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Phonetics | ||
Phonology | ||
Morphology | ||
Syntax | ||
Semantics | ||
Linguistics Electives | ||
Complete three courses not used to fulfill other degree requirements from the following: | 12 | |
ASL Linguistics | ||
LING 3000–LING 4999 |
- 1
Please visit the Linguistics Courses page within this catalog to review the list of courses in the LING 3000–LING 4999 range.
Psychology Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory and Intermediate Psychology | ||
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Statistics | ||
Complete the following course. Students who receive transfer credit for the Advanced Placement Statistics exam may complete the 1 SH PSYC 2315 course (requires department permission). | 4-5 | |
Statistics in Psychological Research | ||
Advanced Psychology | ||
PSYC 3402 | Social Psychology | 4 |
PSYC 3466 | Cognition | 4 |
Psychology Lab | ||
Complete one of the laboratory courses or, with prior approval, a directed study or honors project on a topic related to psycholinguistics or cognition: | 4 | |
Laboratory in Psycholinguistics | ||
Laboratory in Cognition | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Directed Study Research | ||
Psychology Seminar | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Seminar in Psycholinguistics | ||
Seminar in Cognition | ||
Seminar in Cognitive Neuroscience | ||
Psychology Electives | ||
A directed study on a topic related to psycholinguistics or cognition may be taken with prior approval. | ||
Complete two of the following (not counted elsewhere): | 8 | |
Developmental Psychology | ||
Learning and Motivation | ||
Sensation and Perception | ||
Biological Psychology | ||
Psychology of Reading | ||
Cognitive Development | ||
Laboratory in Psycholinguistics | ||
Laboratory in Cognition | ||
Laboratory in Developmental Psychology | ||
Seminar in Psycholinguistics | ||
Seminar in Cognition | ||
Seminar in Cognitive Neuroscience | ||
Seminar in Developmental Psychology | ||
Directed Study Research |
Integrative Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
PSYC 3464 | Psychology of Language | 4 |
Experiential Learning | ||
Complete one of the following options. Courses used to satisfy this requirement will also typically simultaneously satisfy a requirement above. | 0-8 | |
Study Abroad (not a Dialogue) | ||
International Co-op | ||
Research Seminar in Linguistics | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 and Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Directed Study Research | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 and Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Directed Study Research |
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Language Requirement | ||
Complete two courses in the same language with a grade of C or higher. Proficiency at elementary level 2 or higher is required. | 8 | |
Mathematics Requirement | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Discrete Structures | ||
Interactive Mathematics | ||
Mathematical Thinking | ||
Calculus for Business and Economics | ||
Calculus 1 | ||
Calculus 2 | ||
Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 1 | ||
Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 2 | ||
Intensive Calculus for Engineers | ||
Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | ||
Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering |
Linguistics and Psychology Combined Major Credit Requirement
Complete 72 semester hours in the major (excluding supporting courses).
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
LING 1150 | 4 | LING 2350 | 4 | Vacation | 0 | Vacation | 0 |
PSYC 1101 | 4 | PSYC 3464 | 4 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | Foreign language course | 4 | ||||
Math requirement | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
LING 3412 | 4 | Linguistics structure course | 4 | Vacation | 0 | Co-op | 0 |
PSYC 2320 | 4 | Linguistics elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC 3466 | 4 | PSYC 3402 | 4 | ||||
Foreign language course | 4 | Psychology elective | 4 | ||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | Linguistics structure course | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
Linguistics or psychology elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Psychology laboratory | 4 | ||||||
ENGW 3315 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | Linguistics structure course | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
Linguistics elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Linguistics or psychology elective | 4 | ||||||
Psychology seminar | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 129 |
Sample Four Years, No Co-op
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
LING 1150 | 4 | LING 2350 | 4 | Vacation | 0 | Vacation | 0 |
PSYC 1101 | 4 | PSYC 3464 | 4 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | Foreign language course | 4 | ||||
Math requirement | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
LING 3412 | 4 | Linguistics structure course | 4 | Vacation | 0 | Vacation | 0 |
PSYC 2320 | 4 | Linguistics elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC 3466 | 4 | PSYC 3402 | 4 | ||||
Foreign language course | 4 | Psychology elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Linguistics structure course | 4 | Linguistics structure course | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
Linguistics elective | 4 | Linguistics or psychology elective | 4 | ||||
Psychology lab | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||
ENGW 3315 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Linguistics or psychology elective | 4 | NUpath or elective | 4 | ||||
Psychology seminar | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
NUpath or elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 128 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/linguistics-speech-language-pathology-bs/
The combined major in linguistics and speech-language pathology and audiology provides students with an extensive background in the formal structures of human language; the methods and applications of linguistic analyses of language data; the biology, neurology, and physics of the human vocal tract; and the nature of both normal and disordered human speech communication and language development. Students have an opportunity to develop critical thinking, information literacy, and strong oral and written communication skills. While on co-op, students gain clinical experience, including preprofessional training appropriate to pursue a graduate degree in SLPA, related clinical healthcare domains, or education.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Linguistics Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Linguistics Foundations | ||
LING 1150 | Introduction to Language and Linguistics | 4 |
LING 2350 | Linguistic Analysis | 4 |
LING 3412 | Language and Culture | 4 |
Linguistic Structure | ||
LING 3420 | Phonetics (Integrative course) | 4 |
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Phonology | ||
Morphology | ||
Syntax | ||
Semantics | ||
Linguistics Electives | ||
Complete three courses not used to fulfill other degree requirements from the following: | 12 | |
ASL Linguistics | ||
LING 3000–LING 4999 1 |
- 1
Please visit the Linguistics Courses page within this catalog to review the list of courses in the LING 3000 - LING 4999 range.
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
All courses in these sections must be completed with a C or better. | ||
Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology | ||
SLPA 1101 | Bridging Minds: Introduction to Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences | 4 |
SLPA 1102 | Language Development | 4 |
SLPA 1103 | Anatomy and Physiology of Speech and Hearing Mechanism | 4 |
SLPA 1203 | Introduction to Audiology | 4 |
SLPA 1205 | Speech and Hearing Science | 4 |
SLPA 4500 | Language Disorders across the Life Span | 4 |
SLPA 4651 | Speech Disorders across the Life Span | 4 |
SLPA 5107 | Clinical Procedures | 4 |
SLPA 6219 | Aural Rehabilitation | 3 |
Biology and Physics Requirements | ||
BIOL 2217 and BIOL 2218 | Integrated Anatomy and Physiology 1 and Lab for BIOL 2217 | 5 |
BIOL 2219 and BIOL 2220 | Integrated Anatomy and Physiology 2 and Lab for BIOL 2219 | 5 |
PHYS 1145 and PHYS 1146 | Physics for Life Sciences 1 and Lab for PHYS 1145 | 5 |
Psychology Requirements | ||
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Statistics Requirements | ||
PHTH 2210 | Foundations of Biostatistics | 4 |
Integrative Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
The following course is taken in another area of the major: | ||
LING 3420 | Phonetics | 4 |
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ENGW 3306 | Advanced Writing in the Health Professions | 4 |
HLTH 2100 | Interprofessional Ethics for Individual and Population Health | 4 |
or PHIL 1165 | Moral and Social Problems in Healthcare | |
PHTH 2300 | Communication Skills for the Health Professions | 4 |
Major Credit Requirement
Complete 107 hours in the major.
Program Requirements
132 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BIOL 2217 and BIOL 2218 | 5 | BIOL 2219 and BIOL 2220 | 5 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | LING 2350 | 4 | ||||
LING 1150 | 4 | SLPA 1101 | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | SLPA 1205 | 4 | ||||
SLPA 1000 or LING 1000 | 1 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
LING 3420 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | Elective | 4 | ||
PHYS 1145 and PHYS 1146 | 5 | Elective | 4 | ||||
SLPA 1103 | 4 | ||||||
SLPA 1203 | 4 | ||||||
SLPA 2000 | 1 | ||||||
18 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 3306 | 4 | HLTH 2100 or PHIL 1165 | 4 | Vacation | Elective | 4 | |
LING 3422 or 3450 | 4 | LING 3422 or 3450 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
PHTH 2300 | 4 | PHTH 2210 | 4 | ||||
Linguistics elective | 4 | SLPA 1102 | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
LING 3412 | 4 | LING 3424 or 3452 | 4 | ||||
SLPA 4500 | 4 | SLPA 4651 | 4 | ||||
SLPA 5107 | 4 | SLPA 6219 | 3 | ||||
Linguistics elective | 4 | Linguistics elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 15 | ||||||
Total Hours: 132 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/interdisciplinary/network-science-minor/
The goal of the network science minor is to introduce students to the theories, tools, methods, and topics within the emerging and growing field of network science. Network science is defined as the measurement, modeling, prediction, and visualization of meaningful interactions and interconnectivity of social, physical, and technological systems. Network science skills are in increasing demand across industries including business, biology, life sciences, engineering, and science. For example, network science is used in business and sociology to study social networks such as friendship networks or networks of interlocking boards of directors. In biology, network science is used to study networks of gene expressions. Network science skills are in high demand for analysts, scientists, and managers who are tasked with analyzing and modeling network data. The study and skills required for network science are inherently interdisciplinary, including topics related to math, computer science, and contextual applications of network methods (in fields such as communications, economics, and epidemiology, among others).
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Network Science Core
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 12 |
| Social Networks | |
| Introduction to Graph Theory | |
| Introduction to Network Science: From the Human Cell to Facebook | |
| Network Science 1 | |
Data and Computational Methods
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 4 |
| Fundamentals of Computer Science 1 | |
| Programming with Data and Data Science Programming Practicum | |
| Digital Methods for Social Sciences and Humanities | |
Applied Topics
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 4 |
| Social Networks (if not taken as a core course) | |
| Bostonography: The City through Data, Texts, Maps, and Networks | |
| Social Network Analysis | |
| Social Networks and Organizations (if COMM 2105 not taken) | |
| Network Science 1 (if not taken as a core course) | |
GPA Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA required in all minor courses
Credit Requirement
20 hours required
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/
Core Majors
- Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (BS)
- Environmental and Sustainability Sciences (BS)
- Environmental Studies (BA)
- Marine Biology (BS)
- Marine Biology with Three Seas (BS)
Combined Majors
- Computer Science and Environmental and Sustainability Sciences (BS)
- Data Science and Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (BS)
- Data Science and Environmental and Sustainability Sciences (BS)
- Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Chemistry (BS)
- Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Economics (BS)
- Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Journalism (BS)
- Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Landscape Architecture (BS)
- Environmental Studies and History (BA)
- Environmental Studies and International Affairs (BA)
- Environmental Studies and Philosophy (BA)
- Environmental Studies and Political Science (BA)
- Sociology and Environmental Studies (BA)
Minors
Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology Courses
EEMB 1101. Foundations in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. (4 Hours)
Introduces students to the foundational principles of ecology and evolutionary biology. Merges traditional lectures on foundational topics in ecology and evolutionary biology (adaptation, mechanisms of evolution, community and ecosystems ecology) with explorations of local field sites and an introduction to field ecology. Students spend several weeks of the semester designing and implementing independent field research projects, through which they are exposed to the foundation of scientific inquiry, including hypothesis testing, collecting, managing, and analyzing data, and presenting their findings.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 1102
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
EEMB 1102. Lab for EEMB 1101. (1 Hour)
Accompanies EEMB 1101. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 1101
EEMB 1105. Foundations in Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics. (4 Hours)
Introduces students to the foundational principles of molecular ecology with an emphasis on applications of high-throughput sequencing techniques to answer questions in ecology and evolutionary biology. Covers foundational topics in ecological and evolutionary genomics (central dogma, structure of nucleic acids, genetic variation, tools in molecular ecology, understanding genomes, and genomics). Practical skills development includes clean technique and proper bench skills; basic command line programming; understanding, quantifying, and analyzing sequence variation; and visualizing genomic data for formal scientific presentations.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 1106
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World
EEMB 1106. Lab for EEMB 1105. (1 Hour)
Accompanies EEMB 1105. Covers topics from the course through various experiments. Focuses on providing firsthand experience using tools from molecular ecology to test ecological and/or evolutionary hypotheses.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 1105
EEMB 1145. Beginning Scuba. (1 Hour)
Focuses on basic skin diving and scuba diving skills, with emphasis on safety. Requires lab fee. Requires ability to pass a swim test and basic comfort in the water.
EEMB 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
EEMB 2302. Ecology. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to learn about the environmental and biological processes that control the distribution and abundance of species and controlling factors that operate on individuals, populations, and communities. The lecture and laboratory introduce a set of generalizable concepts that are of fundamental importance to plant and animal life on the land and in the sea and provide hands-on experiential learning that reinforce concepts covered in lecture. Offers students an opportunity to become proficient in the following: (a) understanding research results the primary literature; (b) conducting a research experiment; (c) interpreting the results of in-class research; (d) communicating results as manuscript.
Prerequisite(s): ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C
Corequisite(s): EEMB 2303
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning, NUpath Writing Intensive
EEMB 2303. Lab for EEMB 2302. (1 Hour)
Accompanies EEMB 2302. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 2302
EEMB 2400. Introduction to Evolution. (4 Hours)
Introduces evolutionary thinking, including contemporary examples of evolution. To understand the evolution of Charles Darwin’s “endless forms most beautiful,” the course adopts an integrative approach that includes information from ecology, genetics, molecular biology, biogeography, and paleobiology. Considers mechanisms of evolutionary change—how does it happen? Examines adaptation, the process by which attributes of an organism change to enhance fitness and the evolutionary history of life on our planet—what was the first living thing, how does speciation occur, what have we learned about evolution of life in the distant past, and how did humans evolve. Includes student presentations and analysis of scientific literature.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1107 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1111 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
EEMB 2610. Plant Biology. (4 Hours)
Examines the biology and diversity of plants and plantlike organisms. Covers introduction to plant biology, anatomy and structure, physiology and development, evolution and classification, and ecology of plants. Emphasizes how global climate change affects the biology and ecology of plants in different ecosystems and biomes.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1107 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1111 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 1105 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D-
EEMB 2700. Marine Biology. (4 Hours)
Examines biological aspects of natural ocean ecosystems and the physical processes that regulate them. Covers distributions, abundances, and interactions of marine organisms; interactions between organisms and the transformation and flux of energy and matter in marine ecosystems; and aspects of physiology related to marine species distributions, abundances, and roles. Students generate, evaluate, discuss, and present data from primary research and apply their knowledge of the scientific method and biological concepts through the creation of a written grant proposal.
Prerequisite(s): (BIOL 1107 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1111 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1115 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 1101 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C )
Corequisite(s): EEMB 2701
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World, NUpath Writing Intensive
EEMB 2701. Lab for EEMB 2700. (1 Hour)
Accompanies EEMB 2700. Covers topics from the lecture course through discussions and experiments.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 2700
EEMB 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
EEMB 3250. Freshwater Ecology. (4 Hours)
Examines the abiotic characteristics of freshwater ecosystems, such as their formation, distribution, and physical/chemical characteristics. Freshwater habitats have long been used as model systems because of their convenient attributes (for example, lakes are largely contained ecosystems with clearly defined edges, and most organisms stay within these aquatic boundaries). Studies how these first principles influence biotic community assembly, drawing on foundational studies that have used freshwater habitats to illustrate dynamics such as seasonal succession, nutrient limitation, trophic cascades, and transitions between alternative states. Examines the linkages between freshwater ecosystems and other ecosystems and the relationship between freshwater systems and the human societies that rely on their ecosystem services.
Prerequisite(s): EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D-
EEMB 3455. Ecosystems Ecology. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the foundational principles of ecosystems ecology. Examines the flow of energy and materials through both the biosphere (plants, animals, and microbes) and the geosphere (soils, atmospheres, and oceans) and the role that humans are playing in altering these key fluxes. Studies elemental cycles that are critically important for human and environmental sustainability—including carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus—and examines similarities and differences in these cycles and flows while drawing on examples from both terrestrial and marine systems. Seeks to understand how changes in ecosystem structure ultimately affect ecosystem function and how this translates into the important services ecosystems provide.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1107 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1111 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 1214 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1200 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 2200 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World
EEMB 3460. Conservation Biology. (4 Hours)
Explores conservation biology, an interdisciplinary science that focuses on conservation of biological diversity at multiple levels. Emphasizes the causes and consequences of biodiversity loss and demonstrates how ecological and evolutionary principles are applied to conservation problems. Covers sustainability; climate change; introduced species; conservation of threatened and endangered species; and pollution, disease, and habitat restoration using examples from marine, aquatic, and terrestrial systems. Offers students an opportunity to read, discuss, evaluate, and present data from primary research through written assignments and oral debates and to apply this knowledge to conservation issues. Emphasizes critical thinking, problem solving, and recognizing multiple perspectives.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1107 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1111 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1115 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
EEMB 3465. Ecological and Conservation Genomics. (4 Hours)
Offers an overview of ecological and conservation genetics, an interdisciplinary science that focuses on understanding the processes that determine genetic diversity at the individual to population level. Focuses on fundamental concepts in evolutionary ecology and population and quantitative genetics, then applies those concepts to solving real-world problems in conservation science. Covers harvested populations, inbreeding, climate change, introduced species, conservation of threatened and endangered species, adaptation, and habitat restoration. Exposes students to multiple sides of these issues and the science that underpins them. Offers students an opportunity to develop the R programming skills required to analyze the complex data sets that often emerge when addressing cutting-edge questions in genetics. Includes writing and coding exercises and mathematical derivations. Emphasizes critical thinking and problem solving.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of C- or CS 2500 with a minimum grade of C- or ECON 2350 with a minimum grade of C- or EEMB 2400 with a minimum grade of C- or ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of C- or MATH 3081 with a minimum grade of C-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World
EEMB 3466. Disease Ecology. (4 Hours)
Covers the fundamentals of disease ecology and evolution. Focuses on how disease can impact the physiology of organisms and how this can, in turn, alter communities and ecosystems. Topics include mathematical theory on host-pathogen interactions; empirical studies of human, wildlife, insect, and plant host populations; emerging infectious diseases; effects on host behavior; host-parasite coevolution; multihost and multipathogen systems; and anthropogenic effects on disease. Includes writing exercises, with a special emphasis on critical thinking and problem solving.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1107 with a minimum grade of D- or BIOL 1111 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World
EEMB 3475. Wildlife Ecology. (4 Hours)
Focuses on wildlife ecology and management, with an emphasis on terrestrial species. Introduces habitat use, behavior, wildlife conservation, parasites and pathogens, wildlife sampling, wildlife management, food and nutrition, population viability, and conservation genetics. Offers students an opportunity to engage in analyzing primary literature, collection, interpretation, and wildlife data and using basic mathematical models.
Prerequisite(s): EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of C
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World
EEMB 3600. Animal Behavior. (4 Hours)
Covers the fundamental principles of animal behavior by focusing on the physiological, ecological, and genetic factors that promote the evolution of diverse behavioral responses in the animal kingdom. Offers students an opportunity to become critical thinkers and readers through discussion of the how and why animals evolve behaviors that appear to increase and/or decrease their fitness.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1113 with a minimum grade of D or BIOL 2299 with a minimum grade of D or EEMB 1105 with a minimum grade of D
EEMB 3700. Desert Ecology. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to obtain a basic understanding of fundamental ecological processes taking place in desert environments. Familiarizes students with how environmental and biological processes interact and influence the distribution and abundance of species in these arid biomes while recognizing the impact that human societies have on desert life and identifying sustainable solutions to ameliorate our ecological footprint. Introduces students to foundational concepts of fundamental importance to desert plant and animal life. Uses an ecological perspective to surround students with a rich social/cultural milieu including interactions with Israeli, Palestinian, and Bedouin communities.
Prerequisite(s): EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- ; EEMB 2303 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Difference/Diversity
EEMB 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
EEMB 4000. Applied Conservation Biology. (4 Hours)
Studies landscape-scale conservation in Transylvania and the Carpathian Mountains of Romania. Working intensively with Foundation Conservation Carpathia, explores efforts to build Europe’s largest national park. Offers students an opportunity to learn from local conservation leaders, collect data, and develop plans to help launch the “Yellowstone of Europe.” Focuses on large carnivore conservation (brown bears, lynx, and wolves); sustainable agriculture; resource management in a country formerly under communist rule; and balancing urban and rural conservation needs. Explores Romania’s rich cultural heritage in Sighisoara, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and Vacaresti Nature Park, a constructed urban wetland in the heart of Bucharest. Requires prior completion of one laboratory science course or permission of instructor.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience, NUpath Natural/Designed World
EEMB 4001. Landscape and Restoration Ecology. (4 Hours)
Topics include ecosystem processes, spatial patterns, disturbance, species distributions, invasive species, and habitat loss. Offers students an opportunity to participate in activities in which they look at and interpret spatial data. Course format includes group work, analyzing the scientific literature, and in-class activities.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 1107 with a minimum grade of C or BIOL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or EEMB 1101 with a minimum grade of C or ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of C or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of C
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
EEMB 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
EEMB 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated without limit.
EEMB 5130. Population Dynamics. (4 Hours)
Offers a comprehensive overview of the mathematical and computational concepts needed to construct dynamical models. Lectures describe how to mathematically derive and model the effects of species interactions, space, disease, and environmental variability in order to understand the dynamics of populations in a changing world. Emphasizes the mathematical tools required to analyze the dynamical behavior of models (e.g., stability, invasion, graphical, and numerical analyses) and validate their predictions using empirical data (e.g., via maximum likelihood and optimization methods). Tutorials demonstrate how to implement, analyze, and test models using the free R programming language.
Prerequisite(s): ((MATH 1241 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1251 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1341 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C )) or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
EEMB 5303. Marine Biology Careers Seminar. (1 Hour)
Covers the information and tools needed to begin pursuing career opportunities in marine biology. Encourages students to explore a variety of career paths, construct résumés, contact potential employers for their internship and permanent positions. Presents invited speakers from state and federal agencies, and from private consulting firms, to talk about their work and career track.
EEMB 5305. Professional Development for Ocean Sciences. (2 Hours)
Designed to assist Three Seas students in securing a graduate research internship. Seeks to provide students with the information needed to pursue diverse career opportunities in marine biology. Provides hands-on experience with an array of science communication tools, including resumés/CVs, cover letters, and social media. Speakers from academia, informal science education organizations, and the media present talks on their work and career tracks.
EEMB 5504. Biology of Corals. (2 Hours)
Covers a variety of topics including basic coral biology, the coral/algal symbioses, the mechanisms of coral bleaching, coral microbiology and disease, coral calcification and ocean acidification, and coral speciation and hybridization. Supplements lectures with readings from the primary literature. Focuses on active areas of research and hands-on learning through lab and field activities.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2311 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
Corequisite(s): EEMB 5505
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
EEMB 5505. Lab for EEMB 5504. (1 Hour)
Accompanies EEMB 5504. Focuses on relevant research questions while providing practical training techniques in coral biology. Hands-on learning includes visual surveys of reef transects, quadrat sampling, coral identification, enumeration of zooxanthellae with a hemocytometer, PAM fluorometry, ImageJ analysis, coral homogenization, and Vibrio plating.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 5504
EEMB 5506. Biology and Ecology of Fishes. (2 Hours)
Covers fundamental concepts in reef fish biology, ecology, and conservation. Additional lecture coursework includes analysis of both group and individual research projects conducted in lab. Presents recent or ongoing research projects by the instructor and guest lecturers. Discussions are based on papers from the scientific literature and relate topics about processes and patterns of fish recruitment, reproduction, dispersal, evolution, conservation, and management.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2311 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
Corequisite(s): EEMB 5507
EEMB 5507. Lab for EEMB 5506. (1 Hour)
Accompanies EEMB 5506. Studies methods to conduct research on reef fishes through class exercises and individual research projects. Hands-on learning includes common fish transect methodology, reef fish identification, cast net and handline (on scuba) fishing techniques, and specimen dissection. Emphasizes analyzing and presenting the data and writing clearly and effectively about scientific research through the lab reports.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 5506
EEMB 5508. Marine Birds and Mammals. (3 Hours)
Studies principles of classification, anatomy, physiology, behavior, and evolution of seabirds and marine mammals. Also addresses conservation and protection of animals and essential habitat. Includes field trips to observe local species.
Prerequisite(s): (BIOL 2311 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- ) or graduate program admission
EEMB 5510. New England Marine Biomes. (4 Hours)
Investigates the major biomes in the northwest Atlantic, including their habitats—rocky intertidal, tidal estuaries, seagrass beds, kelp forest/rocky reef complex, soft sediments, salt marshes, and continental shelf. Studies the major chemical, physical, geological, and biological forces that shape each habitat. Investigates the ecological framework of each habitat, both in the field and in hands-on exercises. Examines the adaptations of plants, algae, and animals to their respective ecosystem. Offers students an opportunity to develop an appreciation for human-induced changes in each habitat and biome and the conservation and restoration efforts currently being used.
Prerequisite(s): (EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2700 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 3460 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 3475 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 4001 with a minimum grade of D- ) or graduate program admission
EEMB 5512. Tropical Terrestrial Ecology. (1 Hour)
Studies the animals, plants, and ecosystems of the new world tropics, with the community structure and diversity of terrestrial Jamaican habitats as an example. Includes field trips to lowland forests, carbonate caves, and the Blue Mountain mist-montane forest. The issue of land use and development vs. conservation is a recurring theme.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2311 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
EEMB 5518. Ocean and Coastal Processes. (2 Hours)
Examines the coupling between physical and biological processes on coral reefs and adjacent habitats. Focuses on biophysical, oceanographic, and benthic-pelagic processes acting in coral reef and associated nearshore ecosystems. Specific topics include oceanographic forcing mechanisms, organismal biomechanics, hydrodynamics, and nutrient dynamics.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2311 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
Corequisite(s): EEMB 5519
EEMB 5519. Lab for EEMB 5518. (1 Hour)
Accompanies EEMB 5518. Studies techniques such as estimation of turbulent diffusion coefficients, mean speed, and logarithmic layer parameters using analysis of video imagery (NIH ImageJ); deploying and recovering zooplankton traps and nets and estimating mortality using vital dyes; use of GoPro for behavioral analyses (sediment shedding in corals); estimating flux rates from active suspension feeders like sponges using dye release; and use of the YSI Exo Sonde to measure different water quality parameters.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 5518
EEMB 5520. Tropical Marine Ecology. (2 Hours)
Highlights and explores the ecological characteristics and current threats facing four tropical ecosystems—coral reefs, seagrass beds, mangrove forests, and tropical lowland rain forests. Explores the connectivity between these ecosystems and the services each provides. Examines how these ecosystems have changed under past threats and are projected to change in future conditions. Includes formal lectures, informal lectures provided in the field, field demonstrations, and interpretive hikes.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2311 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
EEMB 5522. Experimental Design Marine Ecology. (4 Hours)
Includes introduction to and application of observational methods in three local marine habitats, experimental design, statistical analysis, R statistical computing and graphics software, and principles of marine ecology. Combines lecture, hand-on research experience, and computer laboratory and includes reading and analyzing the scientific literature and developing research projects. At the end of the semester, students are expected to demonstrate an integrative mastery of course topics by writing a scientific manuscript about a class experiment. Seeks to prepare students for practicing ecology in new environments and to provide students with the foundational knowledge necessary for pursuing more complex concepts in experimental design, statistical analysis, and marine ecology.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2311 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Writing Intensive
EEMB 5525. Advanced Field Methods in Marine Ecology. (3 Hours)
Explores the methods used to build and complete scientific studies in marine ecology from observation to data analysis and interpretation within the context of the northwest Atlantic Ocean. Offers students an opportunity to build quantitative skills by understanding how and when to apply different statistical methods to a range of ecological datasets. Studies how to appropriately interpret results and effectively communicate the interpretation to any audience. Applies these skills to additional study systems outside the marine environment of the northwest Atlantic.
Prerequisite(s): ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
EEMB 5528. Marine Conservation Biology. (3 Hours)
Examines several critical issues facing marine ecosystems, including invasive species, marine pollution and eutrophication, fisheries impacts, physical alteration of habitats, and global climate change. Offers students an opportunity to spend field time surveying intertidal and subtidal habitats within the San Juan Islands and Friday Harbor Marine Reserve and to conduct independent research projects.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2311 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Ethical Reasoning
EEMB 5533. Marine Invertebrate Zoology and Botany. (2 Hours)
Explores major groups of marine macroalgae and marine invertebrates, their ecological roles, and interrelationships. Identifies defining features of these groups and the evolutionary and ecological drivers leading to adaptations. Emphasizes important groups in the Pacific Northwest habitats, including kelp forest and rocky intertidal habitats. Hands-on learning with corequisite lab includes field identification; visits to intertidal and subtidal marine environments; and specimen observation, dissection, preparation, and cataloging.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 5535
EEMB 5535. Lab for EEMB 5533. (1 Hour)
Accompanies EEMB 5533. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 5533
EEMB 5538. Conservation and Restoration of Marine Systems. (3 Hours)
Designed to foster an understanding of conservation and restoration strategies in the nearshore marine system using a real-world case study approach. Students collect and analyze historical and newly collected data and use this to inform a conservation and restoration plan within the context of local, state, and federal laws. Uses real-world examples (such as aquaculture, seagrass restoration, and shoreline hardening) to build ecological goals. Seeks to build understanding and appreciation of the input of all stakeholders, including that of marginalized groups. Offers students an opportunity to produce a high-level and annotated deliverable that could serve as a template for real-world use.
EEMB 5540. Changing Global Oceans. (2 Hours)
Investigates the major drivers to short-, medium-, and long-term changes in the world’s oceans. Compares the role of natural and human-induced changes in ocean systems. Key areas focus on the role of nonhuman animals in modifying and mitigating oceanic and atmospheric change. Explores the linkages among oceans and atmosphere through examples in the Pacific Northwest and worldwide.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 5541
EEMB 5541. Lab for EEMB 5540. (1 Hour)
Accompanies EEMB 5540. Students participate in daily, topical, paper discussions, carry out laboratory exercises, or explore and collect data in field exercises. Offers students an opportunity to acquire skills such as using oceanographic equipment, modeling simulations, data collection, and data analysis.
Corequisite(s): EEMB 5540
EEMB 5542. Marine Spatial Planning. (4 Hours)
Investigates issues of marine and coastal spatial planning (MCSP) that include offshore wind power siting, fisheries and aquaculture management, natural resource extraction, marine mammal conservation, and/or living shoreline protection and mitigation. Covers the spatial planning process from question to deliverable strategy, including assessment of stakeholder needs and potential ecosystem impacts. Offers students an opportunity to acquire and assess data, apply appropriate statistical tools, and develop spatial maps using geographic information systems (GIS) and other software. Also covers how to synthesize the planning process and develop and evaluate recommendations.
Prerequisite(s): EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2700 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 3460 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 4001 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience
EEMB 5546. Sustainability of the Land-Sea Interface. (3 Hours)
Explores the current issues facing management and conservation of the land-sea interface, also known as the coastal transition zone (CTZ). Evaluates the mitigation, conservation, and restoration tools that are applied to human use of the land-sea interface. Observes these tools during site visits and discusses strategies with experts in sustainability of these habitats. Synthesizes the scientific literature on CTZ tools in the northwest Atlantic and other regions with pressing sustainable land-sea use issues. Offers students an opportunity to develop skills in prioritizing and advocating for particular conservation strategies and to practice science communication skills to effectively reach a broad audience.
Prerequisite(s): (EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 2700 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 3460 with a minimum grade of D- or EEMB 4001 with a minimum grade of D- ) or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
EEMB 5589. Diving Research Methods. (2 Hours)
Presents experimental design, sampling methodology, statistical analysis, techniques, and the use of underwater equipment to conduct subtidal research.
Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses
ENVR 1000. Marine and Environmental Sciences at Northeastern. (1 Hour)
Intended for first-year students in the College of Science. Introduces students to liberal arts; familiarizes them with their major; develops the academic skills necessary to succeed (analytical ability and critical thinking); provides grounding in the culture and values of the University community; and helps to develop interpersonal skills—in short, familiarizes students with all skills needed to become a successful university student.
ENVR 1101. Environmental Science. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the complex array of topics that collectively form the discipline of environmental science. Emphasizes the problems facing today’s natural, human-managed, and coupled human/natural ecosystems and the solutions to those problems. Studies the human dimensions of environmental science, including culture, politics, worldviews, ethics, and economics, particularly within the context of global climate change. Offers students an opportunity to learn to analyze data as a means of exploring relationships among societal and ecological drivers affecting economic, ecological, and socioeconomic stability; to learn how the scientific method is used to separate fact and data from opinion; and to apply these methods to explore the causes and solutions to global climate change.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 1103. Age of Dinosaurs. (4 Hours)
Utilizes evidence from the sedimentary rock record to evaluate and to interpret significant biological and physical events in Mesozoic earth history. Changes in the Earth’s landscape due to variations in climate, plate tectonics, and sea level provide the background for detailed consideration of Mesozoic life. Emphasizes the evolutionary history of dinosaurs and provides detailed data for testing hypotheses of evolutionary mechanisms, paleobiogeography, functional anatomy, ecology and community structure, and extinction and extinction models.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 1110. Global Climate Change. (4 Hours)
Analyzes Earth’s modern climate system and natural climate change over Earth’s 4.5-billion-year history. Examines ongoing and future climate change. Includes expected impacts of the predicted climate changes as well as mitigation and adaptation options.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 1120. Oceans and Coasts. (4 Hours)
Explores the marine and coastal realm and the problems that arise from the human-marine relationship. Begins by studying the history of the ocean and ends with how to create a more sustainable marine world. Topics covered include ocean and estuarine circulation, climate change and ocean response, and the plant and animal life thriving in different parts of the ocean. Includes reading and analyzing the scientific literature, developing and presenting research projects, and group work.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 1200. Dynamic Earth. (4 Hours)
Offers a systematic study of the materials and systems comprising the earth. Emphasizes the processes that form, transport, alter, and destroy rocks, as well as the nature and development of landscape. Plate tectonics theory is introduced as a guiding paradigm in geology.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 1201. Lab for ENVR 1200. (1 Hour)
Accompanies ENVR 1200. Covers exercises pertaining to mineral and rock identification and topographic and geologic map interpretation. Required for environmental geology and geology majors.
Prerequisite(s): ENVR 1200 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
ENVR 1202. History of Earth and Life. (4 Hours)
Traces biological and environmental development of the earth over the past 4.6 billion years using evidence preserved in the rock record. A primary goal is to understand how geoscientists interpret earth history by learning how to test hypotheses and develop explanations for events that occurred far in the geologic past. Examination of major earth systems, the biosphere, lithosphere, atmosphere and hydrosphere, reveals how they interact to control the origin of earth, the origin and evolution of life, the causes and effects of extinction, plate tectonics and mountain building, and climate change over earth history.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 1203. Interpreting Earth History. (1 Hour)
Focuses on students using sedimentary rocks, fossils, and geologic maps and stratigraphic sections to record and to interpret events in earth history.
ENVR 1400. Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences. (4 Hours)
Presents a series of lectures and case studies focused on the problems facing today’s natural, human-managed, and coupled human/natural ecosystems. Integrates the underlying science with the human dimensions of environmental challenges. These include an understanding of the basic chemistry, physics, and ecology of environmental change and how this science is informed and altered by culture, politics, worldviews, ethics, and economics. Examines quantitative techniques to analyze data as a means of exploring relationships among societal and ecological drivers affecting economic, ecological, and socioeconomic stability. Studies how the scientific method is used to separate facts and data from opinion and applies these methods to explore the causes and solutions to global climate change and other environmental challenges.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 1401
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 1401. Lab for ENVR 1400. (1 Hour)
Accompanies ENVR 1400. Offers supervised lab/discussion sessions for students to develop the tools needed to tackle environmental problem solving at the interface of human and natural systems.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 1400
ENVR 1500. Introduction to Environmental, Social, and Biological Data. (4 Hours)
Introduces the fundamental concepts in the fields of environmental, social, and biological science. Studies the expertise needed in each discipline to organize and manage data in sustainability science. The first half of the course covers data collection relevant to pressing issues in sustainability, database organization, coding, and finding errors in data sets. The second half of the course covers basic principles in the statistical analysis of data sets used in conservation and sustainability, including simulating data, machine learning, and errors in analysis. Offers hands-on experience through students' own data collection projects. Appropriate for students interested in biology, marine biology, environmental science, and ecology and evolutionary biology. Designed to prepare students for co-ops and upper-level classes in these fields.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 1501
ENVR 1501. Lab for ENVR 1500. (1 Hour)
Accompanies ENVR 1500. Offers supervised lab sessions demonstrating how topics covered in the lectures can be addressed using a variety of platforms, including Excel, R, and Python.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 1500
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
ENVR 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ENVR 2200. Earth's Changing Cycles. (4 Hours)
Introduces the biological, chemical, and physical interactions that shape our environment and how industrial emission of gases and black carbon, the use of fertilizers and plastics, and the expansion of cities are altering Earth’s systems at rates unprecedented in the recent geological record. Offers students an opportunity to build a fundamental understanding of major issues in environmental science, including climate change, eutrophication, loss of biodiversity, and urbanization. Considers how we might build a more sustainable future.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 2310. Earth Materials. (4 Hours)
Describes the physical and chemical characteristics of common rock-forming minerals and geologic processes that form rock and soils in the igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic environments. Focuses on commonly encountered minerals, soil, and rock types and how these are used to interpret past and present earth processes. This is a writing-intensive course with a required term paper.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1200 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C )
Corequisite(s): ENVR 2311
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
ENVR 2311. Lab for ENVR 2310. (1 Hour)
Accompanies ENVR 2310. Cover topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 2310
ENVR 2340. Earth Landforms and Processes. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the origin and evolution of landscape features by processes operating at or near the earth’s surface. Exercises introduce interpretation of air photos, topographic maps, remotely sensed data, and digital elevation models.
Prerequisite(s): ENVR 1200 with a minimum grade of D-
Corequisite(s): ENVR 2341
ENVR 2341. Lab for ENVR 2340. (1 Hour)
Accompanies ENVR 2340. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 2340
ENVR 2401. Food Justice and Community Development. (4 Hours)
Uncovers and examines the key dilemmas of the food system in the United States today using readings, media, discussion, service-learning, and field trips. Working from the foundations of environmental justice and community development, covers production, access, distribution, and key stakeholders from producers to retailers, workers, and consumers. Considers what justice-related issues face stakeholders within the food system in the United States; what policies have most impacted the workforce in the American food system; and what the opportunities and leverage points are for change in improving justice outcomes in this system.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
ENVR 2500. Biostatistics. (4 Hours)
Provides an overview of advanced statistical concepts and approaches for studying biological systems. Explains the mathematical underpinnings of the statistical methods and demonstrates how to implement them in the R programming language to analyze real data. Topics include Bayesian statistics, general and generalized linear models, mixed-effects models, multivariate statistics, and ensemble modeling. Emphasizes the philosophical differences between Bayesian and frequentist approaches and their implications for interpreting statistical results.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 2501, ENVR 2502
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
ENVR 2501. Lab for ENVR 2500. (1 Hour)
Accompanies ENVR 2500. Offers supervised lab sessions demonstrating how topics covered in the lectures can be addressed in the R programming environment.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 2500
ENVR 2502. Recitation for ENVR 2500. (0 Hours)
Accompanies ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501. Covers various topics from the course. Offers students an opportunity to work interactively with instructors and other students to learn and apply the knowledge acquired in lecture and lab.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 2500, ENVR 2501
ENVR 2515. Sustainable Development. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the principles and practice of sustainable development, both as a way of looking at the interconnected world and an overarching framework for promoting economic development, social inclusion, and environmental stewardship. Students will study decades of local and global efforts aimed at developing economies, eradicating hunger and disease, and restoring and sustaining ecosystems for a large, and growing, population living on an increasingly altered planet and facing a changing climate. Along with lectures and discussions on core concepts, students will critically dissect the toughest questions and challenges of sustainable development through an online class blog and semester-long group projects.
Prerequisite(s): ENVR 1101 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Societies/Institutions, NUpath Writing Intensive
ENVR 2900. Special Topics in Environmental Studies. (4 Hours)
Studies various topics on environmental issues. May be repeated once.
ENVR 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ENVR 2991. Research in Marine and Environmental Sciences. (1-4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct introductory-level research or creative endeavors under faculty supervision. May be repeated seven times.
ENVR 3125. Global Oceanic Change. (4 Hours)
Explores major changes in physical, biological, and chemical properties of the ocean over geological and human timescales. Includes origin and early evolution of the oceans; sea-level change; global warming; ocean acidification; the role of plate tectonics in driving long-term oceanic change; the role of atmospheric carbon dioxide in driving short-term oceanic change; tipping points in the oceans; snowball earth theory; marine pollution; oil exploration; and social, economic, and political implications of global oceanic change. Themes include differentiating drivers of change across multiple temporal and spatial scales; evaluating change from different and sometimes conflicting perspectives (social, economic, political, environmental); differentiating local and global change; and establishing linkages between physical, chemical, and biological processes in the ocean. Requires prior completion of one laboratory science course or permission of instructor.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 3150. Food Security and Sustainability. (4 Hours)
Discusses the science of sustainable agriculture, fisheries, and aquaculture. Examines the issues related to nutrition and hunger, food safety, and food production in the face of a changing climate with a scientific lens. Using the FAO Global Food Security and Strategy document and other peer-reviewed literature, compares the food issues in the United States with those in the developing world, including sub-Saharan Africa and Southeast Asia. Explores the many issues related to food production and environmental sustainability—including fertilizer use, GMOs, and pollution—and local examples of sustainable food production. Discusses the ways in which we can potentially remedy many of the issues involved in providing food for more than 7 billion people worldwide.
Prerequisite(s): EEMB 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1110 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1120 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1200 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D- or SOCL 1246 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World, NUpath Writing Intensive
ENVR 3200. Water Resources. (4 Hours)
Offers students who wish to work in the area of water resources an opportunity to understand the issues related to water’s availability and behavior at the Earth’s surface. Topics covered include (1) the hydrologic cycle, including global and regional patterns of water movement; (2) characteristics of surface and groundwater systems, including the linkage between streams, rivers, lakes, wetlands, groundwater, and the sea; (3) water management issues and regulations that have been enacted to control the use of water as a resource; (4) water quality measures for surface water and groundwater; and (5) examples of water use conflicts and emerging water issues. Case studies include examples from California, New England, New York, the southwestern United States, China, Africa, and the Middle East.
ENVR 3300. Geographic Information Systems. (4 Hours)
Studies how to use a geographic information system (GIS). Explores the practical application of GIS to support scientific and social inquiry, analysis, and decision making. Topics include spatial data collection; data accuracy and uncertainty; cartographic principles and data visualization; geographic analysis; and legal, economic, and ethical issues associated with using GIS. Investigates case studies from geology, environmental science, urban planning, architecture, social studies, and engineering. Provides extensive hands-on experience with a leading commercial GIS software package. Offers students an opportunity to conceive their own research problem that can be addressed using GIS and reach conclusions that are summarized in a professional report. Students who do not meet course prerequisites may seek permission of instructor.
Prerequisite(s): EEMB 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1200 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 2200 with a minimum grade of D-
Corequisite(s): ENVR 3301
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Creative Express/Innov
ENVR 3301. Lab for ENVR 3300. (1 Hour)
Accompanies ENVR 3300. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 3300
ENVR 3410. Environmental Geochemistry. (4 Hours)
Offers students who wish to work in the geosciences or environmental science and engineering fields, including on the land, in freshwater, or the oceans, an opportunity to understand the geochemical principles that shape the natural and managed environment. Seeks to provide a context for understanding the natural elemental cycles and environmental problems through studies in atmospheric, terrestrial, freshwater, and marine geochemistry. Topics include fundamental geochemical principles; environmental mineralogy; organic and isotope geochemistry; the global carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorous cycles; atmospheric pollution; environmental photochemistry; and human-natural climate change feedbacks.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 1151 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 1214 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 3418. Geophysics. (4 Hours)
Studies the basic techniques of reflection and refraction seismology and earthquake analysis; gravity and magnetic surveying methods; radioactive decay principles and Earth’s heat flow; and how information from these methods are used to interpret the nature and age of the Earth’s surface and interior. Emphasizes near-surface exploration, data collection methods, data analysis, and using data to constrain mathematical models of the subsurface distribution of geologic units.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 1200 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D- ); (MATH 1241 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1251 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1341 with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
ENVR 3435. Environmental Pollution: Fate and Transport. (4 Hours)
Provides a systematic approach to analyzing the fate and transport of pollutants within natural systems. Equilibrium modeling and reactive transport modeling are used to assess the predominant processes that control the movement and persistence of pollutants in water, soil, and air. Topics include mass transfer across multiple phases; physical, chemical, and biological transformations of substances; transport processes (diffusion, dispersion, advection, interphase mass transport); eutrophication of lakes; conventional pollutants in rivers and estuaries; groundwater contamination; and atmospheric deposition.
Prerequisite(s): CHEM 1151 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of D- or CHEM 1214 with a minimum grade of D-
ENVR 3540. Environmental Psychology. (4 Hours)
Incorporates themes from cognitive psychology and environmental science to examine how people understand the environment and their place in it and how this understanding varies with culture, informal experience, and formal education. Examines relations between environmental cognition, environmental attitudes, values and norms, and sustainable behavior.
Prerequisite(s): ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
ENVR 3600. Oceanography. (4 Hours)
Presents an integrated overview of biological, chemical, physical, and geological processes operating in the world's oceans. Emphasizes understanding the fragility and resilience of marine systems in the face of human-driven perturbations such as habitat fragmentation, elevated sea surface temperature and acidification, non-native species, nonsustainable fishing and aquaculture, and coastal land use. Offers students an opportunity to prepare for further course work in both marine biology and in earth, oceans, and environmental change.
ENVR 3701. Energy in the Desert Ecosystem. (4 Hours)
Incorporates lectures, seminars, and visits throughout several institutions/organizations within the Arava Desert (Israel) to identify the various ways in which energy sustains life in this arid and harsh region of the world. Covers both the biological needs for energy acquisition and conservation of desert organisms, as well as technological advances in the utilization and storage of energy such as wind, solar, biomass, fuel cells, and hybrid systems, all within the context of living and exploiting the desert environment. Touches upon the environmental consequences of energy conversion and how renewable energy can reduce air pollution and global climate change.
ENVR 3800. Plants and Society. (4 Hours)
Introduces the anatomy, physiology, ecology, diversity, and management of economically relevant plants. Applies plant biology to human nutrition, biofuels, wood, cloth, and medicines. Offers insight into cultural uses and values of plants across the globe. Also discusses traditional and new forms of plant management techniques, along with their advantages and disadvantages for sustainability.
Prerequisite(s): EEMB 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D-
Corequisite(s): ENVR 3801
ENVR 3801. Lab for ENVR 3800. (1 Hour)
Accompanies ENVR 3800. Offers students an opportunity to interact with plants on a weekly basis, while applying their observational, creative, identification, and technical skills. Introduces basic plant biology and physiology principles, along with their application for plant care. Focuses on the care techniques for common landscaping as well as household, edible, medicinal, and other economically important plants.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 3800
ENVR 3850. Sustainable Agriculture. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the natural science and management of sustainable agricultural systems. Introduces agricultural principles for soil management, pest management, and crop planning. Examines different agricultural systems including row cropping, indigenous food forests, vertical farming, and integrated crop-livestock systems. Evaluates the economic, policy, and social justice barriers to scaling sustainable agriculture. Discusses climate change resilience of sustainable agricultural systems.
Prerequisite(s): EEMB 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D-
ENVR 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ENVR 4000. Science Communication and Professional Development. (4 Hours)
Covers professional skills such as writing cover letters, crafting resumés, interviewing, creating a biographical sketch, and developing overall confidence by connecting to audiences. Science communication focuses on connecting with nonscientific audiences to convey complex scientific concepts and engaging diverse stakeholders to solve pressing societal problems using scientific approaches. Covers general principles of messaging, based on an understanding of how people learn and make decisions, using techniques such as narrative storytelling, visualizations, and theatrical improvisation and other art forms. Offers students an opportunity to develop tools to highlight their strengths, market their skills, explore potential jobs and career paths, and understand how to best prepare for those positions. Designed to integrate with ENVR 4050.
ENVR 4050. Solving Emerging Environmental Challenges through Capstone. (4 Hours)
Gathers students from across the various environmental and sustainability sciences concentrations to solve environmental problems that are of concern to various stakeholders. Students perform service-learning with a number of not-for-profit and government agencies to identify specific environmental challenges to tackle. Students work in teams that unite social scientists, sustainability experts, conservation biologists and ecologists, and physical scientists to bring the specific expertise gained during their concentration studies together to tackle pressing environmental challenges. Offers students an opportunity to provide solutions to the problems proposed by our stakeholders, as well as to learn leadership and communication skills needed to head up a large project and to thrive in a transdisciplinary environment.
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience
ENVR 4500. Applied Hydrogeology. (4 Hours)
Covers the origin, distribution, and flow of groundwater in permeable sediments and bedrock; hydrological and geological characteristics of aquifers; regional flow systems emphasizing rock structure, stratigraphy, and other aspects of the geological environment; principles of hydrogeologic mapping and analysis; and introduces well testing and well hydraulics. Uses methods of collecting data about the physical distribution and properties of water and its interaction with geologic materials in the subsurface, including its chemical composition, and mathematical models to interpret the direction and velocity of groundwater flow. Considers remediation strategies for dealing with contaminated water in the subsurface.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 1200 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D- ); (MATH 1241 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1251 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1341 with a minimum grade of D- )
Corequisite(s): ENVR 4501
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
ENVR 4501. Lab for ENVR 4500. (1 Hour)
Accompanies ENVR 4500. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 4500
ENVR 4504. Environmental Pollution. (4 Hours)
Describes models and methods for predicting fate and transport of organic contaminants within and between environmental media, including molecular diffusion, transport across boundaries, and box models. Uses chemical structure and thermodynamic properties to predict physical processes that control the distribution of contaminants between the atmosphere, fresh and marine surface waters, groundwater, soils, sediments, and biota. Introduces concepts linking environmental chemistry with ecotoxicology, including bioaccumulation, food web models, and risk assessment. Uses case studies and real-world scenarios to illustrate important concepts. Offers students an opportunity to develop the tools and skills necessary to determine the fate of organic chemicals released to the environment.
Prerequisite(s): (CHEM 1161 with a minimum grade of D or CHEM 1214 with a minimum grade of D ); (EEMB 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1200 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 4505. Wetlands. (4 Hours)
Presents an interdisciplinary overview of the physical, biological, and cultural aspects of wetlands. Topics covered include definitions, classification systems, origins, human use, and natural processes of wetland environments. Offers students an opportunity to learn about wetland hydrology, soils, and vegetation and their relationship to ecosystem processes, societal values, and management. Includes reading and analyzing the scientific literature and conducting in-class activities.
Prerequisite(s): EEMB 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1200 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
ENVR 4900. Earth and Environmental Science Capstone. (1 Hour)
Offers students an opportunity to reflect about what they have learned in the major, in their coursework, and experiential learning. With help from faculty, students identify topics for individual research tailored to their interests and the course content. Requires writing with revision to produce a final capstone paper.
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
ENVR 4970. Junior/Senior Honors Project 1. (4 Hours)
Focuses on in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Combined with Junior/Senior Project 2 or college-defined equivalent for 8-credit honors project. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience
ENVR 4971. Junior/Senior Honors Project 2. (4 Hours)
Focuses on second semester of in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): ENVR 4970 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience
ENVR 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ENVR 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated without limit.
ENVR 4996. Experiential Education Directed Study. (4 Hours)
Draws upon the student’s approved experiential activity and integrates it with study in the academic major. Restricted to those students who are using the course to fulfill their experiential education requirement. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
ENVR 4997. Senior Thesis. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to prepare an undergraduate thesis under faculty supervision.
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
ENVR 5000. Community Stakeholder Engagement in Environmental Management and Research. (4 Hours)
Introduces the history and theories of public participation in environmental policy settings to reflect on what kinds of participatory processes work best, for what purposes, and under which conditions. Environmental problems of the 21st century can be effectively addressed using processes that link sound scientific analysis with effective public deliberation. Applies principles studied to stakeholder and community engagement in science, research, or policy. Covers best practices for administering participatory processes and community engagement for community science, citizen science, or other participatory practices.
Attribute(s): NUpath Societies/Institutions
ENVR 5115. Advanced Topics in Environmental Geology. (4 Hours)
Examines selected topics in geology through an understanding of the basic processes, materials, and evolution. Topics include basin analysis, landform evolution, volcanology, or regional geology. May be repeated without limit.
ENVR 5150. Climate and Atmospheric Change. (4 Hours)
Offers an in-depth view of the processes that drive change in Earth's climate system. Examines the modern climate system and how and why climate changes through time. Introduces the tools used to explore past climates and changes, and explores the long-term and short-term controls on the climate system. Also introduces the application of climate models to develop future climate projections. Offers students an opportunity to obtain hands-on experience analyzing and interpreting climate data and model output.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 1200 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 2200 with a minimum grade of D- ) or (PHYS 1151 with a minimum grade of D- ; PHYS 1152 with a minimum grade of D- ; PHYS 1153 with a minimum grade of D- ) or graduate program admission
ENVR 5190. Soil Science. (4 Hours)
Provides a description and evaluation of the physical, chemical, and biological properties of soils. Includes soil formation, soil types, and processes that occur in soil including the importance of these processes for the soil productivity and management of soil. Also covers sources, reactions, transports, and fates of chemical species in soils and associated water and air environments, as well as the chemical behavior of elements and compounds and the phenomena affecting natural and anthropogenic materials in soils.
Prerequisite(s): ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1200 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 2310 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
ENVR 5201. Geologic Field Seminar. (4 Hours)
Studies aspects of geology/environmental science associated with a particular field setting, in the classroom, followed by an intensive field investigation. Examples include carbonate petrology and reef ecology, then field studies in the Bahamas; glacial geology and volcanology, followed by field studies in Iceland; or stratigraphy of the U.S. Southwest, with field studies in the Grand Canyon. Focuses on using field observations and field data to interpret modern and ancient geologic processes. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Integration Experience, NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 5202. Environmental Science Field Seminar Abroad. (4 Hours)
Offers an intensive environmental science field study experience associated with a particular off-campus geographic setting, such as Iceland, Newfoundland, Bahamas, etc. Offers students an opportunity to learn the principles of field study, to learn to recognize and record significant data, and to reach conclusions about a range of field-based problems being studied. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience, NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 5210. Environmental Planning. (4 Hours)
Examines aspects of surface runoff from geomorphic and hydrologic perspectives. Develops methods for description and calculation of major river and drainage basin processes and applies the results to the planning process. Examines human modification of these systems—including urbanization, dams, and channelization—and applies this information to an understanding of regulatory processes. This is a writing-intensive course.
Prerequisite(s): ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
ENVR 5220. Ecosystem-Based Management. (4 Hours)
Introduces the principles and practice of ecosystem-based management. Covers how ecosystem-based management draws from social, economic, and ecological principles, as well as how these principles are fundamentally coupled. Begins by covering the evolution of resource management, from single-species to ecosystem-based approaches, including the strengths and challenges of each approach. Focuses on how ecosystem-based management has been applied to terrestrial, freshwater aquatic, and marine ecosystems, including challenges and successes of adopting this approach. Draws from a wide range of examples, including marine protected areas, terrestrial and marine spatial planning, and habitat restoration. Designed for upper-intermediate or advanced undergraduates and graduate students in environmental science and related fields.
ENVR 5242. Ancient Marine Life. (4 Hours)
Begins with a survey of major events, processes, and important invertebrate phyla preserved in the fossil record. This knowledge of paleontology is then utilized to evaluate evolutionary principles and the nature of function and adaptation in the history of life. Organization of populations into paleocommunities and their relationships to changes in environments through time permit the assessment and evaluation of paleoecology in Earth history.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 5243
ENVR 5243. Lab for ENVR 5242. (1 Hour)
Accompanies ENVR 5242. Introduces invertebrate fossil morphology by study of fossil specimens of all major groups. Principles of paleoecology and evolutionary theory are illustrated by analysis of suites of fossil specimens.
Corequisite(s): ENVR 5242
ENVR 5260. Geographical Information Systems. (4 Hours)
Examines geographical information systems (GIS), a way to input, store, analyze, and display spatial data (data with a geographic location). Introduces the major components and applications of this exciting new tool. Consists of two lectures and one laboratory period a week. Laboratory exercises introduce methods of data analysis as well as practical issues of how to manipulate various GIS software packages.
Attribute(s): NUpath Creative Express/Innov
ENVR 5350. Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions. (4 Hours)
Examines the role of sustainable energy on emissions from energy production and the resulting impacts on climate changes. Introduces current observations, predictions of future climate change, and the resulting impacts on ecological and human systems. Assesses past and current sources of U.S. energy-related and non-energy-related sources of greenhouse gases. Reviews sustainable energy alternatives and emission reduction strategies with a focus on comparing moderate and deep decarbonization strategies and the overall goal of reaching zero net emissions.
ENVR 5410. Human Behavior and Sustainability. (3 Hours)
Offers a graduate-level introduction to the interdisciplinary field of human behavior and sustainability sciences. Explores an emerging literature embracing the complexity of social-ecological systems to better engage with the processes that reinforce unsustainable pathways and those that might be leveraged toward more sustainable futures. Focuses on understanding how observations about the psychology of individuals and collectives, and their relationship to institutions, have been theorized in relation to the environment and the approaches and methodologies used to test and describe such relationships.
ENVR 5450. Applied Social-Ecological Systems Modeling. (4 Hours)
Covers the key frameworks, theories, and approaches for conducting social-ecological systems (SES) research. Involves topic and paper discussions focused on developing detailed knowledge and agility at describing the theoretical and applied foundations of interdisciplinary SES research. Includes semester-long projects to develop hands-on skills for conducting robust, methodologically sound studies of social-ecological systems. Particularly emphasizes participatory modeling as a tool for both scientific inquiry and stakeholder engagement. Students complete a participatory modeling project, including all steps of the scientific process, and have an opportunity to gain experience with research design, data collection, analysis, interpretation, and communication.
ENVR 5500. Advanced Biostatistics. (4 Hours)
Describes the advanced statistical concepts and approaches needed to analyze complex biological data. Examines the theoretical underpinnings of modern statistical methods and discusses their suitability for addressing questions from a variety of biological fields. Studies how to apply these methods using the R programming environment. Topics include a brief review of general linear models, likelihood and optimization, generalized linear models and survival analysis, model selection and regularization, generalized mixed-effects models, generalized additive models, Bayesian modeling, constrained and unconstrained ordination, supervised and unsupervised classification, ensemble modeling, and machine learning.
Prerequisite(s): ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of C- or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
ENVR 5563. Advanced Spatial Analysis. (4 Hours)
Offers an in-depth evaluation of theoretical, mathematical, and computational foundations of geographic information systems (GIS). Examines advanced concepts and techniques in GIS analysis and spatial statistics methods. Topics include spatial information theory, database theory, mathematical models of spatial objects, and GIS-based representation.
Prerequisite(s): ENVR 3300 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 5260 with a minimum grade of C- or ENVR 5260 with a minimum grade of C-
ENVR 5600. Coastal Processes, Adaptation, and Resilience. (4 Hours)
Introduces the forcing and response of the built and natural coastal environment, including hurricanes and extratropical storms, wind waves, astronomical tides, storm surges, currents, sediment transport, and morphological changes. Seeks to provide an overview of the physical processes and interaction with human activity at the water and land interface, including anthropogenic, natural, and nature-based features for coastal defense. Uses examples and case studies of climate adaptation plans to illustrate alternatives to increase coastal resiliency. Emphasizes the challenges to developing resilience solutions in urban coastal areas, where population growth coupled with sea-level rise and climate extremes exacerbate exposure of people and infrastructure to flood hazards.
ENVR 5610. Technology and the Blue Economy. (4 Hours)
Focuses on emerging technology and the global blue economy that generates trillions of U.S. dollars in economic activity. Introduces key sectors including global shipping, operations of port and harbors, fishing and aquaculture, tourism, ocean monitoring and exploration, finance models, energy, and minerals extraction. Examines challenges to a sustainable and equitable blue economy including global biodiversity loss, marine pollution, decarbonization, access to capital, and national security. Includes virtual field trips to companies and institutions involved in technology and the blue economy.
ENVR 5670. Global Biogeochemistry. (4 Hours)
Examines the biological, chemical, and physical interactions that shape our global environment. These interactions combine in the global biogeochemical cycles. Industrial emission of gases, use of fertilizers and plastics, and the expansion of cities are altering the biogeochemical cycling of the elements carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus at rates unprecedented in the geological record. Uses lectures and the latest update to Chapter 6, “Carbon and Other Biogeochemical Cycles,” of the International Panel on Climate Change report to explore the main interactions between human activity, biogeochemical change, and climate. Discusses primary literature to delve deeper into these interactions.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
ENVR 5700. Streams and Watershed Ecology. (4 Hours)
Studies the physical, chemical, and biological processes in streams and surrounding watersheds. Explores the hydrology, structure, function, and biota of running waters and the landscape that supports them. Examines current and relevant issues in stream science and policy, including natural and anthropogenic disturbance, climate change, and management and restoration techniques in stream systems. Provides broad foundational knowledge on stream science, which offers students an opportunity to learn experimental techniques and employ them in the field. The first half of the course consists of lecture and discussion, while the second half is taught principally in the field.
Prerequisite(s): EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of C- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of C-
ENVR 5750. Urban Ecology. (4 Hours)
Investigates the myriad ways that natural systems intersect with human-dominated landscapes, including urban hydrology, nutrient cycling, and the distribution of organisms in cities. Urbanization is rapidly expanding with over half of humans currently inhabiting urban landscapes. The conversion of natural areas to human-dominated landscapes is resulting in the loss of biodiversity, habitat connectivity, and ecosystem services. It is also changing how we perceive and value natural systems. Evaluates the ecology in cities but also ecology of cities, including how cities integrate into larger landscapes; ecosystem service provisioning; and the biological, cultural, and psychological value of urban nature for people. Culminates by looking to the future of how urban spaces adapt to climate change, increasing populations, and other emerging issues.
Prerequisite(s): ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of C- or EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of C- or graduate program admission
ENVR 5800. Climate Adaptation and Nature-Based Solutions. (4 Hours)
Examines ways of measuring ecological resilience, adaptation capacity, adaptation and mitigation strategies, and developing transformation pathways to new stable states. The effects of climate change are having wide-ranging impacts on people and nature. Climate mitigation and adaptation can slow or stop climate impacts and decrease their severity. Natural mitigation and adaptation strategies (nature-based solutions) offer sustainable approaches to respond to these challenges. Evaluates climate change impacts on natural systems and explores strategies that reduce and adapt to these changes, including impact assessment; evaluation of ecological health for ecosystems, habitats, communities, and populations; and response prioritization. Offers students an opportunity to build skills in informing and evaluating the potential for these strategies at local, regional, and global scales and opportunities to deploy these strategies.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of C- or EEMB 2302 with a minimum grade of C- ) or graduate program admission
ENVR 5984. Research. (1-4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct research under faculty supervision. May be repeated without limit.
Environmental Studies Courses
ENVS 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ENVS 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ENVS 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ENVS 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ENVS 4991. Research. (4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct research under faculty supervision.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
ENVS 4997. Senior Thesis. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to prepare an undergraduate thesis under faculty supervision.
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/ecology-evolutionary-biology-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Due to overlap in course content, double majoring in ecology and evolutionary biology and marine biology is not permitted.
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology | ||
EEMB 1101 and EEMB 1102 | Foundations in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Lab for EEMB 1101 | 5 |
Ecology and Evolutionary Genomics | ||
EEMB 1105 and EEMB 1106 | Foundations in Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics and Lab for EEMB 1105 | 5 |
Genetics | ||
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
Evolution | ||
EEMB 2400 | Introduction to Evolution | 4 |
Ecology | ||
EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | 5 |
Conservation | ||
EEMB 3460 | Conservation Biology | 4 |
Data Skills | ||
ENVR 1500 and ENVR 1501 | Introduction to Environmental, Social, and Biological Data and Lab for ENVR 1500 | 5 |
Biostatistics | ||
ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501 | Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | 5 |
Communication | ||
ENVR 4000 | Science Communication and Professional Development | 4 |
Capstone | ||
ENVR 4997 | Senior Thesis | 4 |
or ENVR 4900 | Earth and Environmental Science Capstone |
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Math | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Calculus 1 | ||
Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 1 | ||
Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | ||
Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
Organic or Environmental Chemistry | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | ||
Environmental Geochemistry | ||
Environmental Pollution: Fate and Transport | ||
Environmental Pollution | ||
Physics 1 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics for Life Sciences 1 and Lab for PHYS 1145 | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 |
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Topical Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete six of the following (at least one course must be taken from each list): | 24 | |
Evolution of Organisms | ||
Human Parasitology | ||
Plant Biology | ||
Marine Biology and Lab for EEMB 2700 | ||
Freshwater Ecology | ||
Ecological and Conservation Genomics | ||
Wildlife Ecology | ||
Animal Behavior | ||
Desert Ecology | ||
Plants and Society and Lab for ENVR 3800 | ||
Ecology and Conservation Biology | ||
Ecosystems Ecology | ||
Disease Ecology | ||
Desert Ecology | ||
Applied Conservation Biology | ||
Landscape and Restoration Ecology | ||
Global Oceanic Change | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Wetlands | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Ecosystem-Based Management | ||
Streams and Watershed Ecology | ||
Urban Ecology | ||
Analytical Skills | ||
Biochemistry and Lab for BIOL 3611 | ||
Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | ||
Organic Chemistry 2 and Lab for CHEM 2313 | ||
Population Dynamics | ||
Experimental Design Marine Ecology | ||
Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | ||
Environmental Geochemistry | ||
Advanced Biostatistics | ||
Advanced Spatial Analysis | ||
Physics for Life Sciences 2 and Lab for PHYS 1147 |
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Credit Requirement
Complete 88 semester hours in the major.
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology GPA Requirement
Complete all major courses with a cumulative GPA of 2.000.
Program Requirement
137 total semester hours required
Four Years, Two Spring Co-ops
Year 1 | |||||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer Full Semester | Hours | ||
EEMB 1101 and EEMB 1102 | 5 | CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | 5 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
ENVR 1000 | 1 | EEMB 1105 and EEMB 1106 | 5 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
ENVR 1500 and ENVR 1501 | 5 | PHYS 1145 and PHYS 1146 | 5 | ||||||
MATH 1241 or 1251 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||||
19 | 19 | 8 | 8 | ||||||
Year 2 | |||||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours | ||
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | 5 | Co-op | Co-op | 0 | Elective | 4 | |||
CHEM 2311 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||||
ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501 | 5 | ||||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||||
19 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||||
Year 3 | |||||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours | ||
EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | 5 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Elective | 4 | ||
EEMB 2400 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||||
EEB elective 1 | 4 | ||||||||
EEB elective 2 | 4 | ||||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||||
Year 4 | |||||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||||
EEMB 3460 | 4 | ENVR 4000 | 4 | ||||||
EEB elective 3 | 4 | ENVR 4997 | 4 | ||||||
EEB elective 4 | 4 | EEB elective 5 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | EEB elective 6 | 4 | ||||||
16 | 16 | ||||||||
Total Hours: 138 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/ecology-evolutionary-biology-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Restrictions
Minor not available for students who major in ecology and evolutionary biology, marine biology, biology, or cell and molecular biology, and all combined majors with these programs.
Required Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
EEMB 1101 and EEMB 1102 | Foundations in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Lab for EEMB 1101 | 5 |
EEMB 1105 and EEMB 1106 | Foundations in Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics and Lab for EEMB 1105 | 5 |
Elective Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete four courses from the lists below. At least one course needs to come from each list: | 16-20 | |
Evolution of Organisms | ||
Human Parasitology | ||
Introduction to Evolution | ||
Marine Biology and Lab for EEMB 2700 | ||
Ecological and Conservation Genomics | ||
Animal Behavior | ||
Ecology and Conservation Biology | ||
Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | ||
Conservation Biology | ||
Wildlife Ecology | ||
Landscape and Restoration Ecology | ||
Analytical Skills | ||
Ecological and Conservation Genomics | ||
Population Dynamics | ||
Introduction to Environmental, Social, and Biological Data and Lab for ENVR 1500 | ||
Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | ||
Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-studies-history-ba/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
BA Language Requirements
All BA students are required to complete the BA degree language requirements, for a total of 12 semester hours of language study or demonstrated equivalent proficiency, as described in Additional Requirements for BA students. Successful demonstration of proficiency does not reduce total minimum semester hours of study required to earn the BA degree.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Environmental Studies Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory Courses | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Environmental Science | ||
Dynamic Earth and Lab for ENVR 1200 | ||
Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Lab for ENVR 1400 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Peoples and Cultures | ||
Food Justice and Community Development | ||
Environmental Ethics | ||
Environment and Society | ||
Scientific Foundations of Environmental Systems | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Global Climate Change | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Water Resources | ||
Human Foundations of Environmental Systems | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Sustainable Development | ||
Environmental Health | ||
Environmental Justice | ||
Skills Course | ||
ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | 5 |
Electives | ||
Complete four of the following, three of which must be at the 3000 level or higher: | 16 | |
Information Design History | ||
The Consulting Environment | ||
Remote Sensing of the Environment | ||
Environmental Issues, Communication, and the Media | ||
Disease Ecology | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | ||
Advanced Spatial Analysis | ||
Urban Ecology | ||
Climate Adaptation and Nature-Based Solutions | ||
Sustainability in the Business Environment | ||
Science Writing | ||
Introduction to Law, Policy, and Society | ||
Environmental Ethics | ||
Introduction to Global Health | ||
Principles of Epidemiology in Medicine and Public Health | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
International Environmental Policy | ||
Environment, Technology, and Society |
History Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
History Requirements | ||
HIST 1130 | Introduction to the History of the United States | 4 |
HIST 1170 | Europe: Empires, Revolutions, Wars, and Their Aftermath | 4 |
HIST 1201 | First-Year Seminar | 4 |
HIST 1215 | Origins of Today: Historical Roots of Contemporary Issues | 4 |
History Seminar | ||
HIST 2301 and HIST 2302 | The History Seminar and Historical Writing | 5 |
History/Geographic-Area Requirements | ||
HIST 1150 | East Asian Studies | 4 |
or ASNS 1150 | East Asian Studies | |
HIST 1185 | Introduction to Middle Eastern History | 4 |
History-Area Electives | ||
Complete four HIST courses, approved by a faculty advisor, focused on an idea or geographic area. A minimum of one course must be numbered 2000 to 2999 (Excluding HIST 2301 and HIST 2032). A minimum of one course must be numbered 3000 to 4999 (Excluding HIST 4701). | 16 |
Integrative Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two of the following (may not overlap with courses used as electives): | 8 | |
Applied Conservation Biology | ||
Food Justice and Community Development | ||
Environmental Pollution | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Data Storytelling |
Experiential Learning and Capstone
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Experiential Learning | ||
Complete an approved activity from either department, combined with reflection in capstone. | ||
Capstone Course | ||
Complete one of the following: | 1-4 | |
Earth and Environmental Science Capstone | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 | ||
Senior Thesis | ||
Capstone Seminar |
Combined-Major Credit Requirement
Complete 91 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | ENVR 1110 | 4 | ENVR elective 1 of 4 | 4 | ENVR elective 2 of 4 | 4 |
ENVR 1000 | 1 | HIST 1170 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
ENVR 1101 | 4 | HIST 1201 | 4 | ||||
HIST 1130 | 4 | ENVR 2515 | 4 | ||||
SOCL 1246 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | 5 | EESC 2000 | 1 | HIST elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
HIST 1215 | 4 | ENVR elective 3 of 4 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
HIST geographic elective | 4 | HIST geographic elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign language course | 4 | HIST elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign language course | 4 | ||||||
17 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENVR elective 4 of 4 | 4 | Integrative elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
HIST elective | 4 | Integrative elective | 4 | ||||
Integrative elective | 4 | ||||||
Foreign language course | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3308 or 3315 | 4 | ||||
HIST 2301 and HIST 2302 | 5 | ||||||
Capstone requirement | 1-4 | ||||||
HIST elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 14-17 | ||||||
Total Hours: 129-132 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-studies-international-affairs-ba/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
BA Language Requirements
All BA students are required to complete the BA degree language requirements, for a total of 12 semester hours of language study or demonstrated equivalent proficiency, as described in Additional Requirements for BA students. Successful demonstration of proficiency does not reduce total minimum semester hours of study required to earn the BA degree.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Environmental Studies Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory Courses | ||
Choose one introductory science course: | 4-5 | |
Environmental Science | ||
Dynamic Earth and Lab for ENVR 1200 | ||
Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Lab for ENVR 1400 | ||
Choose one introductory social science course: | 4 | |
Peoples and Cultures | ||
Food Justice and Community Development | ||
Environmental Ethics | ||
Environment and Society | ||
Scientific Foundations of Environmental Systems | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Global Climate Change | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Water Resources | ||
Human Foundations of Environmental Systems | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Sustainable Development | ||
Environmental Health | ||
Environmental Justice | ||
Skills Course | ||
ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | 5 |
Electives | ||
Complete four of the following, three of which must be at the 3000 level or higher: | 16 | |
Information Design History | ||
The Consulting Environment | ||
Remote Sensing of the Environment | ||
Environmental Issues, Communication, and the Media | ||
Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | ||
Disease Ecology | ||
Desert Ecology | ||
Energy in the Desert Ecosystem | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | ||
Advanced Spatial Analysis | ||
Urban Ecology | ||
Climate Adaptation and Nature-Based Solutions | ||
Sustainability in the Business Environment | ||
Science Writing | ||
Introduction to Law, Policy, and Society | ||
Environmental Ethics | ||
Introduction to Global Health | ||
Principles of Epidemiology in Medicine and Public Health | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
International Environmental Policy | ||
Environment, Technology, and Society |
International Affairs Requirements
Courses used to fulfill major requirements may not be used to satisfy the global dynamics requirement. See department for additional courses.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
INTL 1101 | Globalization and International Affairs | 4 |
INTL 3400 | International Conflict and Negotiation | 4 |
POLS 1160 | International Relations | 4 |
International Experiential Learning | ||
Complete at least one “international semester” via study abroad, international internship, international co-op, or two short-term programs. |
International Affairs Elective
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following courses: | 4 |
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Women and World Politics | ||
Race and Global Human Mobility | ||
Global Philanthropy | ||
Cities in a Global Context | ||
Borders and Racial Security | ||
International Law | ||
Revolution, Civil War, and Insurrection | ||
Security, Culture, Power | ||
Global Political Economy | ||
Forced Migration: Refugees, Exiles, and Displaced Persons | ||
International Human Rights Law and Policy | ||
Climate and Development |
Global Dynamics Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two of the following courses. Courses are divided into thematic groups to aid students in deciding which courses to take and have no bearing on major requirements. | 8 |
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Environment | ||
Global Climate Change | ||
Sustainable Development | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Climate and Development | ||
International Environmental Policy | ||
or PPUA 5268 | International Environmental Policy | |
Climate Policy and Justice | ||
Environment and Society | ||
Law, Diplomacy, and Global Governance | ||
Law and History | ||
Global and Intercultural Communication | ||
Women and World Politics | ||
or WMNS 2480 | Women and World Politics | |
Global Political Economy | ||
International Human Rights Law and Policy | ||
Comparative Politics | ||
International Relations | ||
Religion and Politics | ||
International Political Economy | ||
International Law | ||
Model United Nations | ||
Human Rights and Social Justice | ||
Gender and Black World Literatures | ||
Afro-Asian Relations in the Americas | ||
Gender, Social Justice, and Transnational Activism | ||
or POLS 3100 | Gender, Social Justice, and Transnational Activism | |
Gender and Reproductive Justice | ||
Gender and Sexuality in World History | ||
Women and World Politics | ||
or WMNS 2480 | Women and World Politics | |
International Human Rights Law and Policy | ||
Global Justice | ||
Conflict and Security | ||
Global Criminology | ||
Political Crime and Terrorism | ||
Security in the 21st Century | ||
Drug Trade and Drug War: History, Security, Culture | ||
History of Espionage 1: Antiquity to World War II | ||
History of Espionage 2: Cold War Spies | ||
The Global Far-Right since 1945: Politics, Culture, Violence | ||
The Global Cold War | ||
Assassinations in World History | ||
History of Modern Terrorism | ||
Revolution, Civil War, and Insurrection | ||
Security, Culture, Power | ||
Covering Conflicts: Peace, War, and the Media | ||
or INTL 3300 | Covering Conflicts: Peace, War, and the Media | |
Global Justice | ||
The Holocaust and Comparative Genocide | ||
Nationalism | ||
U.S. National Security Policy | ||
Terrorism and Counterterrorism | ||
Revolution, Civil War, and Insurrection | ||
or INTL 3430 | Revolution, Civil War, and Insurrection | |
Model NATO | ||
Globalization | ||
Issues in Race, Science, and Technology | ||
Global Markets and Local Culture | ||
Religion and Modernity | ||
History of the Global Economy | ||
International Economics | ||
Origins of Today: Historical Roots of Contemporary Issues | ||
The World Since 1945 | ||
Colonialism/Imperialism | ||
Cultural Aspects of International Business | ||
Women and World Politics | ||
or WMNS 2480 | Women and World Politics | |
Cities in a Global Context | ||
Global Political Economy | ||
International Relations | ||
Religion and Politics | ||
International Political Economy | ||
International Law | ||
Population, Migration, and Diaspora | ||
Introduction to African American and Africana Studies | ||
Epidemiology of Pandemic Diseases and Health Disparities in the African Diaspora | ||
Introduction to Global Health | ||
or PHTH 1270 | Introduction to Global Health | |
Peoples and Cultures | ||
Human Trafficking | ||
Pirates, Planters, and Patriots: Making the Americas, 1492–1804 | ||
History of Global Pandemics | ||
Race and Global Human Mobility | ||
Cities in a Global Context | ||
Forced Migration: Refugees, Exiles, and Displaced Persons | ||
Introduction to World Religions | ||
Sex in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam | ||
Immigration Politics | ||
Development | ||
Global Markets and Local Culture | ||
Development Economics | ||
International Food Policy | ||
A Critique of Capitalism | ||
Economic Growth and Applications | ||
Sustainable Development | ||
Capitalism and Business: A Global History | ||
Global Social Enterprise | ||
International Business and Global Social Responsibility | ||
or INTB 1209 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | |
Global Philanthropy | ||
Global Political Economy | ||
Climate and Development | ||
Global Health | ||
Politics of Developing Nations | ||
Communication and Media | ||
Global and Intercultural Communication | ||
Understanding and Managing Cultural Differences | ||
Cultural Aspects of International Business | ||
Covering Conflicts: Peace, War, and the Media | ||
or INTL 3300 | Covering Conflicts: Peace, War, and the Media | |
Global Reporting | ||
Language Policy | ||
Global Media |
Regional Analysis Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two regional analysis courses, both of which must be in one region, from the following lists. Select courses taken during a semester study abroad or specific Dialogue of Civilizations courses may count as regional analysis courses pending approval of the international affairs head faculty adviser. See department for additional courses. | 8 |
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Africa | ||
Possession, Sacrifice, and Divination in African Diasporic Religions | ||
Swahili, Culture, and Politics in Kenya | ||
Community Health, Culture, and Development in Kenya | ||
Introduction to African Studies | ||
Ethnography of Southeast Asia | ||
Anthropology of Africa | ||
Business Economic History of South Africa | ||
Natural Resources and Sustainable Development | ||
Asia | ||
Culture and Politics in Modern India | ||
East Asian Studies | ||
or HIST 1150 | East Asian Studies | |
Japanese Film | ||
Modern Chinese History and Culture | ||
Introduction to Japanese Pop Culture | ||
World War II in the Pacific | ||
Japanese Literature and Culture | ||
History of Vietnam Wars | ||
Modern Chinese History and Culture | ||
Modern Japan | ||
Hinduism, Buddhism, and Beyond | ||
Chinese Philosophy and Religion | ||
Japanese Buddhism | ||
China: Governance and Foreign Policy | ||
Europe | ||
Anthropology of Eastern Europe | ||
Introduction to French Culture | ||
Introduction to Italian Culture | ||
Cultural History of Spain | ||
Europe: Empires, Revolutions, Wars, and Their Aftermath | ||
Europe in the Middle Ages, 500–1500 | ||
History of the Soviet Union | ||
Renaissance to Enlightenment | ||
The Tudors, the Stuarts, and the Birth of Modern Britain | ||
Russian Foreign Policy | ||
or POLS 3455 | Russian Foreign Policy | |
Politics and Governance of Europe and the European Union | ||
Latin America | ||
Afro-Latin American Studies | ||
Latin American Society and Development | ||
Latin American Film | ||
Latin American Culture, History, and Politics | ||
Social Justice in Latin American and Latinx Film | ||
New Narratives: Latin America after 1989 | ||
Literature, Arts, and Poverty in Latin America | ||
Latin American Literature | ||
Introduction to Latin American History | ||
Latin American History through Film | ||
Latino, Latin American, and Caribbean Studies | ||
Middle East | ||
Introduction to Arabic Culture | ||
Economic History of the Middle East | ||
Introduction to Middle Eastern History | ||
The Mediterranean World: An Overview | ||
Middle East Studies | ||
Modern Israel | ||
America and the Middle East | ||
Islam: Rituals, Traditions, and Debates | ||
Jewish Religion and Culture | ||
Government and Politics in the Middle East |
International Affairs Foreign Language Requirement
Complete coursework in a language through at least intermediate-level two (course number 2101 or higher). Note: Completing this requirement satisfies the language requirement for the BA degree.
Integrative Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Integrative Courses | ||
ECON 1711 | Economics of Sustainability | 4 |
or ECON 3290 | History of the Global Economy | |
or ECON 3423 | Environmental Economics | |
INTL 4700 | Senior Capstone Seminar in International Affairs | 4 |
or ENVS 4997 | Senior Thesis | |
PHTH 4120 | Global Perspectives on Discrimination and Health | 4 |
or INTL 5100 | Climate and Development | |
or ENVR 2401 | Food Justice and Community Development | |
or ENVR 4000 | Science Communication and Professional Development | |
or HIST 2211 | The World Since 1945 | |
or HIST 2311 | Colonialism/Imperialism |
Environmental Studies and International Affairs Combined Major Credit Requirement
Complete 81 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Plans of Study
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | ENVR 1110 | 4 | Elective (Dialogue of Civilizations possible) | 4 | Regional Analysis course 1 | 4 |
ENVR 1101 | 4 | ENVR 2515 | 4 | Elective (Dialogue of Civilizations possible) | 4 | Foreign language course 2 | 4 |
INTL 1101 | 4 | POLS 1160 | 4 | ||||
SOCL 1246 | 4 | Foreign Language Course 1 | 4 | ||||
ENVR 1000 or INTL 1000 | 1 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | 5 | EESC 2000 | 1 | Elective (Dialogue of Civilizations possible) | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
Global Dynamics course 1 | ENVR elective; 2 of 4 | 4 | Elective (Dialogue of Civilizations possible) | 4 | |||
ENVR Elective; 1 of 4 | 4 | ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | 5 | ||||
Regional Analysis course 2 | 4 | ENVR elective; 3 of 4 | 4 | ||||
Foreign Language Course 3 | 4 | ||||||
13 | 18 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENVR Elective; 4 of 4 | 4 | Regional Analysis course 3 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
INTL 3400 | 4 | Quantitative methods course | 4-5 | ||||
Global Dynamics course 2 | 4 | ||||||
Foreign Language Course 4 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8-9 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | ECON 3423 | 4 | ||||
ENGW 3308 or 3315 | 4 | ||||||
INTL 4700 | 4 | ||||||
INTL Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 128-129 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-studies-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated.
Introductory Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ENVR 1101 | Environmental Science | 4 |
or ENVR 1200 | Dynamic Earth | |
or ENVR 1400 | Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences | |
SOCL 1246 | Environment and Society | 4 |
or ANTH 1101 | Peoples and Cultures | |
or PHIL 1180 | Environmental Ethics | |
or HUSV 2401 | Food Justice and Community Development |
Scientific Foundations of Environmental Systems
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Global Climate Change | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Water Resources |
Human Dimensions of Environmental Systems
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Sustainable Development | ||
Environmental Health | ||
Environmental Justice |
Skills Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Ethnographic Field Experience | ||
Statistics for Economists | ||
Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | ||
Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
Research Methods in Sociology |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-studies-philosophy-ba/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
BA Language Requirements
All BA students are required to complete the BA degree language requirements, for a total of 12 semester hours of language study or demonstrated equivalent proficiency, as described in Additional Requirements for BA students. Successful demonstration of proficiency does not reduce total minimum semester hours of study required to earn the BA degree.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Environmental Studies Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory Courses | ||
Science | ||
Choose one introductory science course: | 4-5 | |
Environmental Science | ||
Dynamic Earth and Lab for ENVR 1200 | ||
Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Lab for ENVR 1400 | ||
Social Science | ||
Choose one introductory social science course: | 4 | |
Peoples and Cultures | ||
Food Justice and Community Development | ||
Environmental Ethics | ||
Environment and Society | ||
Scientific Foundations of Environmental Systems | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Global Climate Change | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Water Resources | ||
Human Foundations of Environmental Systems | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Sustainable Development | ||
Environmental Health | ||
Environmental Justice | ||
Skills Course | ||
ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | 5 |
Electives | ||
Complete four of the following, three of which must be at the 3000 level or higher: | 16 | |
Information Design History | ||
The Consulting Environment | ||
Remote Sensing of the Environment | ||
Environmental Issues, Communication, and the Media | ||
Disease Ecology | ||
Desert Ecology | ||
Energy in the Desert Ecosystem | ||
Environmental Pollution | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | ||
Advanced Spatial Analysis | ||
Urban Ecology | ||
Climate Adaptation and Nature-Based Solutions | ||
Sustainability in the Business Environment | ||
Science Writing | ||
Introduction to Law, Policy, and Society | ||
Environmental Ethics | ||
Introduction to Global Health | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
International Environmental Policy |
Philosophy Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Philosophy Required Courses | ||
PHIL 1115 | Introduction to Logic | 4 |
PHIL 1180 | Environmental Ethics | 4 |
PHIL 2325 | Ancient Philosophy and Political Thought | 4 |
or POLS 2325 | Ancient Philosophy and Political Thought | |
PHIL 2330 | Modern Philosophy | 4 |
Philosophy of Science/Environment | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Science and Pseudoscience | ||
Information and Uncertainty | ||
Philosophy of Science | ||
Philosophy of Biology | ||
Advanced Electives | ||
Complete two PHIL courses with a designation of 3000 or above not used to satisfy another requirement, with at least one at 4000 or 5000 level. | 8 | |
Critical Philosophy Elective | ||
Take one of the following courses not used to fulfill another requirements: | 4 | |
Goddesses, Witches, Saints, and Sinners: Women and Religion | ||
Sex in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam | ||
Human Rights | ||
Indigenous Philosophy | ||
Race and Religion in Film | ||
Sexuality, Gender, and the Law | ||
Philosophy of Race and Racism | ||
Additional Philosophy Electives | ||
Complete one additional PHIL course, not used to satisfy another requirement. | 8 |
Integrative Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two of the following. Courses used for electives may not be used as integrative courses: | 8 | |
Theories of Conflict and Negotiation | ||
Solving Emerging Environmental Challenges through Capstone | ||
Senior Thesis | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Ecosystem-Based Management |
Environmental Studies and Philosophy Combined Major Credit Requirement
Complete 78 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENVR 1101 | 4 | ENVR 2515 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
PHIL 1115 | 4 | ENVR 3150 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
PHIL 1180 | 4 | PHIL 2325 or POLS 2325 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | 5 | ENVR elective; 2 of 4 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHIL 1105 or 4510 | 4 | Critical PHIL Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
PHIL 2330 | 4 | PHIL Elective | 4 | ||||
ENVR elective; 1 of 4 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENVR elective; 3 of 4 | 4 | Integrative Course #1 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
ENVR elective; 4 of 4 | 4 | Integrative Course #2 | 4 | ||||
PHIL 3000/4000/5000 Elective | 4 | ||||||
PHIL Science/Environment Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | PHIL 3000/4000/5000 Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 129 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-studies-political-science-ba/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
BA Language Requirements
All BA students are required to complete the BA degree language requirements, for a total of 12 semester hours of language study or demonstrated equivalent proficiency, as described in Additional Requirements for BA students. Successful demonstration of proficiency does not reduce total minimum semester hours of study required to earn the BA degree.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Environmental Studies Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory Courses | ||
Introductory Science | ||
Choose one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Environmental Science | ||
Dynamic Earth and Lab for ENVR 1200 | ||
Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Lab for ENVR 1400 | ||
Introductory Social Science | ||
Choose one of the following: | 4 | |
Peoples and Cultures | ||
Food Justice and Community Development | ||
Environmental Ethics | ||
Environment and Society | ||
Scientific Foundations of Environmental Systems | ||
Choose one of the following: | 4 | |
Global Climate Change | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Water Resources | ||
Human Foundations of Environmental Systems | ||
Choose one of the following: | 4 | |
Sustainable Development | ||
Environmental Health | ||
Environmental Justice | ||
Skills Course | ||
ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | 5 |
Electives | ||
Choose four courses from the list. At least three must be at 3000 level or higher. | 16 | |
Information Design History | ||
The Consulting Environment | ||
Remote Sensing of the Environment | ||
Environmental Issues, Communication, and the Media | ||
Disease Ecology | ||
Energy in the Desert Ecosystem | ||
Environmental Pollution | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | ||
Advanced Spatial Analysis | ||
Urban Ecology | ||
Climate Adaptation and Nature-Based Solutions | ||
Sustainability in the Business Environment | ||
Science Writing | ||
Environmental Ethics | ||
Introduction to Global Health | ||
Principles of Epidemiology in Medicine and Public Health | ||
International Environmental Policy | ||
Environment, Technology, and Society |
Political Science Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Political Science Requirements | ||
POLS 1150 | American Government | 4 |
POLS 1155 | Comparative Politics | 4 |
POLS 1160 | International Relations | 4 |
POLS 2399 | Research Methods in Political Science | 4 |
POLS 2400 | Quantitative Techniques | 4 |
Political Thought | ||
Choose one of the following: | 4 | |
Ancient Philosophy and Political Thought | ||
Modern Political Thought | ||
American Political Thought | ||
Contemporary Political Thought | ||
Political Science Electives | ||
Note: Elective courses may also be used to fulfill requirements of an optional concentration of this program | ||
Choose four POLS Electives 2000 level or above. | 16 |
Political Science Concentrations (Optional)
If you are working toward one of the following concentrations, declare it with your advisor so that it may be added to your record.
- American Political Institutions
- Campaigns and Elections
- Comparative Politics
- Identity, Culture, and Politics
- International Relations and Diplomacy
- Law and Legal Studies
- Public Policy
- Security Studies
Integrative Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Political Science Integrative Course | ||
Choose one of the following: | 4 | |
Science, Technology, and Public Policy | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
Environmental Science Integrative Course | ||
Choose one of the following: | 4 | |
Environmental Pollution | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Ecosystem-Based Management | ||
Capstone Requirement | ||
Choose one of the following: | 1-4 | |
Solving Emerging Environmental Challenges through Capstone | ||
Earth and Environmental Science Capstone | ||
Senior Thesis | ||
Political Science Senior Capstone |
Environmental Studies and Political Science Combined Major Credit Requirement
Complete 84 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Concentration in American Political Institutions
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete four of the following: | 16 | |
State and Local Politics | ||
The U.S. Congress | ||
Judicial Process and Behavior | ||
Public Policy and Administration | ||
Public Opinion, Voting, and Elections | ||
Campaign Strategy |
Concentration in Campaigns and Elections
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
POLS 3160 | Campaign Strategy | 4 |
POLS 3302 | Judicial Process and Behavior | 4 |
Campaigns and Elections Electives | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Urban Policies and Politics | ||
State and Local Politics | ||
POLS 3162 | ||
Public Opinion, Voting, and Elections | ||
Politics and Mass Media |
Concentration in Comparative Politics
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Theoretical Requirement | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
The Holocaust and Comparative Genocide | ||
Democratic Erosion | ||
Immigration Politics | ||
Religion and Politics | ||
Nationalism | ||
Revolution, Civil War, and Insurrection | ||
Politics of Developing Nations | ||
Regional Requirements | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Politics and Governance of Europe and the European Union | ||
Government and Politics in the Middle East | ||
Experiential/Practicum Requirement | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Model Arab League | ||
Model NATO | ||
Dialogue of Civilizations: Government and Politics Abroad |
Concentration in Identity, Culture, and Politics
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Core Course | ||
POLS 3418 | Nationalism | 4 |
Electives | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Immigration Politics | ||
Music and Politics in America and Abroad | ||
Religion and Politics | ||
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Issues in Public Policy | ||
Law and Society |
Concentration in International Relations and Diplomacy
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Experiential/Practicum Requirement | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Model United Nations | ||
Model Arab League | ||
Dialogue of Civilizations: International Politics Abroad | ||
Core Courses | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
International Political Economy | ||
International Law | ||
Politics and Governance of Europe and the European Union | ||
International Security |
Concentration in Law and Legal Studies
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete four of the following: | 16 | |
American Political Thought | ||
The U.S. Congress | ||
Judicial Process and Behavior | ||
Race, Inequality, and the Law | ||
Law and Society | ||
International Law | ||
Global Governance | ||
U.S. Constitutional Law | ||
U.S. Civil Liberties |
Concentration in Public Policy
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Core Requirement | ||
POLS 3307 | Public Policy and Administration | 4 |
Electives | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Urban Policies and Politics | ||
State and Local Politics | ||
Science, Technology, and Public Policy | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
U.S. Foreign Policy |
Concentration in Security Studies
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete four of the following: | 16 | |
U.S. National Security Policy | ||
Terrorism and Counterterrorism | ||
U.S. Foreign Policy | ||
Revolution, Civil War, and Insurrection | ||
Politics of Developing Nations | ||
International Security |
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | POLS 1155 | 4 | Foreign Language course | 4 | Elective | 4 |
ENVR 1101 | 4 | Foreign language course | 4 | ENVR elective 1 of 4 | 4 | Elective | 4 |
POLS 1150 | 4 | ENVR 2515 | 4 | ||||
SOCL 1246 | 4 | ENVR 3150 | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
POLS 1160 | 4 | POLS 2400 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
ENVR elective; 2 of 4 | 4 | ENVR elective, 3 of 4 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | 5 | Political thought course | 4 | ||||
Foreign language course | 4 | Foreign language course | 4 | ||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3315 or 3308 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
POLS undergraduate elective | 4 | POLS elective | 4 | ||||
Quantitative methods course | 4-5 | ||||||
Integrative course #1 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16-17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | Capstone1 | 4 | ||||
Integrative course #2 | 4 | ||||||
POLS undergrad elective | 4 | ||||||
ENVR elective, 4 of 4 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 129-130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-sustainability-sciences-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Environmental and Sustainability Sciences Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
ENVR 1000 | Marine and Environmental Sciences at Northeastern | 1 |
or INSC 1000 | Science at Northeastern | |
Core Curriculum | ||
EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | 5 |
ENVR 1200 and ENVR 1201 | Dynamic Earth and Lab for ENVR 1200 | 4 |
or ENVR 2200 | Earth's Changing Cycles | |
ENVR 1400 and ENVR 1401 | Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Lab for ENVR 1400 | 5 |
ENVR 1500 and ENVR 1501 | Introduction to Environmental, Social, and Biological Data and Lab for ENVR 1500 | 5 |
ENVR 2515 | Sustainable Development | 4 |
ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | 5 |
ENVR 4000 | Science Communication and Professional Development | 4 |
ENVR 4050 | Solving Emerging Environmental Challenges through Capstone | 4 |
or ENVR 4971 | Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | |
or ENVR 4997 | Senior Thesis | |
Mathematics Requirements | ||
ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501 | Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | 4 |
or ECON 2350 | Statistics for Economists | |
or POLS 2400 | Quantitative Techniques | |
or SOCL 2321 | Research Methods in Sociology | |
MATH 1241 | Calculus 1 | 4 |
or MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering |
Environmental and Sustainability Sciences Concentrations
Complete one of the following concentrations:
- Conservation, Restoration, and Management
- Earth, Oceans, and Environmental Change
- Environment and Society
- Sustainable Planning and Development
Environmental and Sustainability Sciences Major Credit Requirement
Complete 81 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
136 total semester hours required
Concentration in Conservation, Restoration, and Management
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Conservation, Restoration, and Management Courses | ||
EEMB 2400 | Introduction to Evolution | 4 |
EEMB 3455 | Ecosystems Ecology | 4 |
or CIVE 3430 | Engineering Microbiology and Ecology | |
EEMB 3460 | Conservation Biology | 4 |
EEMB 4001 | Landscape and Restoration Ecology | 4 |
ENVR 5220 | Ecosystem-Based Management | 4 |
Conservation, Restoration, and Management Electives | ||
Complete five of the following: | 20-25 | |
Plant Biology | ||
Freshwater Ecology | ||
Ecological and Conservation Genomics | ||
Disease Ecology | ||
Wildlife Ecology | ||
Desert Ecology | ||
Applied Conservation Biology and Food Justice and Community Development | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Water Resources | ||
Environmental Psychology | ||
Energy in the Desert Ecosystem | ||
Plants and Society and Lab for ENVR 3800 | ||
Sustainable Agriculture | ||
Applied Hydrogeology and Lab for ENVR 4500 | ||
Wetlands | ||
Soil Science | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | ||
Applied Social-Ecological Systems Modeling | ||
Advanced Spatial Analysis | ||
Streams and Watershed Ecology | ||
Urban Ecology |
Concentration in Earth, Oceans, and Environmental Change
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Earth Systems | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Dynamic Earth and Lab for ENVR 1200 | ||
Earth's Changing Cycles | ||
Earth Materials and Landforms | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Earth Materials and Lab for ENVR 2310 | ||
Earth Landforms and Processes and Lab for ENVR 2340 | ||
Freshwater | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Water Resources | ||
Applied Hydrogeology and Lab for ENVR 4500 | ||
Wetlands | ||
Streams and Watershed Ecology | ||
Oceans | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Global Oceanic Change | ||
Oceanography | ||
Environmental Change | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Global Oceanic Change | ||
Climate and Atmospheric Change | ||
Chemistry | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
General Chemistry for Engineers and Recitation for CHEM 1151 | ||
General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | ||
General Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 1211 and Recitation for CHEM 1211 | ||
Physics | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics for Life Sciences 1 and Lab for PHYS 1145 | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 and Recitation for PHYS 1161 | ||
Earth, Oceans, and Environmental Change Electives | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12-15 | |
Remote Sensing of the Environment | ||
Freshwater Ecology | ||
Earth Materials and Lab for ENVR 2310 | ||
Earth Landforms and Processes and Lab for ENVR 2340 | ||
Global Oceanic Change | ||
Water Resources | ||
Geophysics | ||
Environmental Pollution: Fate and Transport | ||
Oceanography | ||
Applied Hydrogeology and Lab for ENVR 4500 | ||
Environmental Pollution | ||
Wetlands | ||
Soil Science | ||
Geologic Field Seminar and Environmental Science Field Seminar Abroad | ||
Global Biogeochemistry | ||
Streams and Watershed Ecology |
Concentration in Environment and Society
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Environment and Society Courses | ||
ENVR 3540 | Environmental Psychology | 4 |
ENVR 3850 | Sustainable Agriculture | 4-5 |
or ENVR 3800 and ENVR 3801 | Plants and Society and Lab for ENVR 3800 | |
PPUA 5260 | Ecological Economics | 4 |
SOCL 1246 | Environment and Society | 4 |
SOCL 2485 | Environment, Technology, and Society | 4 |
or POLS 2395 | Environmental Politics and Policy | |
Environment and Society Electives | ||
Complete five of the following: | 20-24 | |
Life Cycle Assessment of Materials, Products, and Infrastructure | ||
Conservation Biology | ||
Applied Conservation Biology and Food Justice and Community Development | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Plants and Society and Lab for ENVR 3800 | ||
Community Stakeholder Engagement in Environmental Management and Research | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Ecosystem-Based Management | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | ||
Coastal Processes, Adaptation, and Resilience | ||
Technology and the Blue Economy | ||
Urban Ecology | ||
Climate Adaptation and Nature-Based Solutions | ||
Natural Resources and Sustainable Development | ||
Climate and Development | ||
Energy Democracy and Climate Justice: Technology, Policy, and Social Change | ||
International Environmental Policy |
Concentration in Sustainable Planning and Development
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Sustainable Planning and Development Courses | ||
ENVR 3150 | Food Security and Sustainability | 4 |
ENVR 3200 | Water Resources | 4 |
ENVR 5210 | Environmental Planning | 4 |
ENVR 5350 | Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | 4 |
or ENVR 5800 | Climate Adaptation and Nature-Based Solutions | |
PPUA 5268 | International Environmental Policy | 4 |
Sustainable Planning and Development Electives | ||
Complete five of the following: | 20-28 | |
Life Cycle Assessment of Materials, Products, and Infrastructure | ||
Freshwater Ecology | ||
Conservation Biology | ||
Applied Conservation Biology and Food Justice and Community Development | ||
Landscape and Restoration Ecology | ||
Environmental Psychology | ||
Energy in the Desert Ecosystem | ||
Plants and Society and Lab for ENVR 3800 | ||
Applied Hydrogeology and Lab for ENVR 4500 | ||
Wetlands | ||
Community Stakeholder Engagement in Environmental Management and Research | ||
Soil Science | ||
Ecosystem-Based Management | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | ||
Applied Social-Ecological Systems Modeling | ||
Advanced Spatial Analysis | ||
Technology and the Blue Economy | ||
Climate Adaptation and Nature-Based Solutions | ||
Natural Resources and Sustainable Development | ||
Ecological Economics |
Four Years, One Co-op in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | 5 | Vacation | Elective | 4 | |
ENVR 1000 | 1 | ENVR 1200 and ENVR 1201 | 5 | Elective | 4 | ||
ENVR 1400 and ENVR 1401 | 5 | MATH 1241 | 4 | ||||
ENVR 1500 and ENVR 1501 | 5 | ESS concentration core or elective 1 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
19 | 18 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
EESC 2000 | 1 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Elective | 4 |
ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501 | 5 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENVR 2515 | 4 | ||||||
ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | 5 | ||||||
ESS concentration core or elective 2 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 3307 | 4 | ESS concentration core or elective 6 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
ESS concentration core or elective 3 | 4 | ESS concentration core or elective 7 | 4 | ||||
ESS concentration core or elective 4 | 4 | ESS concentration core or elective 8 | 4 | ||||
ESS concentration core or elective 5 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
ESS concentration core or elective 9 | 4 | ENVR 4000 | 4 | ||||
ESS concentration core or elective 10 | 4 | ENVR 4050 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 136 |
Four Years, One Co-op in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | 5 | Vacation | Elective | 4 | |
ENVR 1000 | 1 | ENVR 1200 and ENVR 1201 | 5 | Elective | 4 | ||
ENVR 1400 and ENVR 1401 | 5 | MATH 1241 | 4 | ||||
ENVR 1500 and ENVR 1501 | 5 | ESS concentration core or elective 1 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
19 | 18 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
EESC 2000 | 1 | ESS concentration core or elective 3 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501 | 5 | ESS concentration core or elective 4 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
ENVR 2515 | 4 | ESS concentration core or elective 5 | 4 | ||||
ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | 5 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ESS concentration core or elective 2 | 4 | ||||||
19 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3307 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
ESS concentration core or elective 6 | 4 | ||||||
ESS concentration core or elective 7 | 4 | ||||||
ESS concentration core or elective 8 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
ESS concentration core or elective 9 | 4 | ENVR 4000 | 4 | ||||
ESS concentration core or elective 10 | 4 | ENVR 4050 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 136 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-sustainability-sciences-chemistry-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Environmental Science and Sustainability Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
ENVR 1000 | Marine and Environmental Sciences at Northeastern | 1 |
or CHEM 1000 | Chemistry/Chemical Biology at Northeastern | |
or INSC 1000 | Science at Northeastern | |
Experiential Learning Introduction | ||
EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op | 1 |
Core Courses | ||
EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | 5 |
ENVR 1200 and ENVR 1201 | Dynamic Earth and Lab for ENVR 1200 | 4-5 |
or ENVR 2200 | Earth's Changing Cycles | |
ENVR 1400 and ENVR 1401 | Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Lab for ENVR 1400 | 5 |
ENVR 2515 | Sustainable Development | 4 |
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Introduction to Environmental, Social, and Biological Data and Lab for ENVR 1500 | ||
Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | ||
Complete four of the following (three of four must be above the 3000 level): | 16 | |
Introduction to Evolution | ||
Conservation Biology | ||
Landscape and Restoration Ecology | ||
Earth Materials and Lab for ENVR 2310 | ||
Earth Landforms and Processes | ||
Global Oceanic Change | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Water Resources | ||
Oceanography | ||
Applied Hydrogeology and Lab for ENVR 4500 | ||
Wetlands | ||
Climate and Atmospheric Change | ||
Soil Science | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Ecosystem-Based Management | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | ||
Applied Social-Ecological Systems Modeling | ||
Global Biogeochemistry | ||
Urban Ecology | ||
Climate Adaptation and Nature-Based Solutions | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
Ecological Economics | ||
Environment, Technology, and Society |
Chemistry Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
General Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
CHEM 2161 and CHEM 2162 and CHEM 2163 | Concepts in Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 2161 and Recitation for CHEM 2161 | 5 |
Intermediate-Level Chemistry | ||
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | 5 |
CHEM 2313 and CHEM 2314 | Organic Chemistry 2 and Lab for CHEM 2313 | 5 |
CHEM 2321 and CHEM 2322 and CHEM 2323 | Analytical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 2321 and Recitation for CHEM 2321 | 5 |
Advanced-Level Chemistry | ||
CHEM 3401 and CHEM 3402 | Chemical Thermodynamics and Kinetics and Lab for CHEM 3401 | 5 |
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Bioanalytical Chemistry and Lab for CHEM 3331 | ||
Quantum Chemistry and Spectroscopy and Lab for CHEM 3403 | ||
Math Requirements | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8-9 | |
Calculus 1 | ||
or MATH 1251 | Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 1 | |
or MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | |
Calculus 2 | ||
or MATH 1252 | Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 2 | |
or MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | |
Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | ||
or ECON 2350 | Statistics for Economists | |
or POLS 2400 | Quantitative Techniques | |
or SOCL 2321 | Research Methods in Sociology | |
Physics Requirement | ||
PHYS 1151 and PHYS 1152 and PHYS 1153 | Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | 5 |
Integrative Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Integrative Requirements | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Environmental Geochemistry | ||
Senior Research | ||
Solving Emerging Environmental Challenges through Capstone | ||
Environmental Pollution | ||
Soil Science |
Major Credit Requirement
94 total semester hours required in the major
Program Credit Requirement
140 total semester hours required in the major
Sample Plan of Study - Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | 5 | CHEM 2161 and CHEM 2162 and CHEM 2163 | 5 | General elective 2 | 4 | General elective 4 | 4 |
ENVR 1000, CHEM 1000, or INSC 1000 | 1 | EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | 5 | General elective 3 | 4 | General elective 5 | 4 |
ENVR 1200 and ENVR 1201 | 5 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
ENVR 1400 and ENVR 1401 | 5 | ENVR 2515 | 4 | ||||
General elective 1 | 4 | ||||||
20 | 18 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
CHEM 2311 and CHEM 2312 | 5 | CHEM 2313 and CHEM 2314 | 5 | CHEM 2321 and CHEM 2322 and CHEM 2323 | 5 | Co-op | |
ENVR elective; 1 of 4 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | Math requirement; 2 of 2 | 4 | ||
Math requirement; 1 of 2 | 4 | PHYS 1151 and PHYS 1152 and PHYS 1153 | 5 | ||||
General elective 6 | 4 | ENVR skills requirement | 4 | ||||
ENVR elective; 2 of 4 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 19 | 9 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | CHEM 3401 and CHEM 3402 | 5 | General elective 7 | 4 | Co-op | ||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | General elective 8 | 4 | ||||
Advanced CHEM elective | 5 | ||||||
ENVR elective; 3 of 4 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 18 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | ENVR elective; 4 of 4 | 4 | |||||
Integrative course; 1 of 2 | 4 | ||||||
Integrative course; 2 of 2 | 4 | ||||||
General elective 9 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 141 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-sustainability-sciences-economics-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Environmental and Sustainability Sciences Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Core Courses | ||
ENVR 1400 and ENVR 1401 | Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Lab for ENVR 1400 | 5 |
ENVR 1200 and ENVR 1201 | Dynamic Earth and Lab for ENVR 1200 | 4-5 |
or ENVR 2200 | Earth's Changing Cycles | |
EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | 5 |
ENVR 2515 | Sustainable Development | 4 |
Complete one of the following skills courses: | 4-5 | |
Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | ||
Geographical Information Systems | ||
Complete four courses from these lists: | 16 | |
Earth Oceans and Environmental Change | ||
Earth Materials and Lab for ENVR 2310 | ||
Global Oceanic Change | ||
Oceanography | ||
Applied Hydrogeology and Lab for ENVR 4500 | ||
Coastal Processes, Adaptation, and Resilience | ||
Global Biogeochemistry | ||
Conservation, Restoration, and Management | ||
Introduction to Evolution | ||
Conservation Biology | ||
Ecological and Conservation Genomics | ||
Landscape and Restoration Ecology | ||
Wetlands | ||
Streams and Watershed Ecology | ||
Sustainable Planning and Development | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Water Resources | ||
Climate and Atmospheric Change | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Climate Adaptation and Nature-Based Solutions | ||
Environment and Society | ||
Applied Social-Ecological Systems Modeling | ||
Urban Ecology | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
Ecological Economics | ||
International Environmental Policy | ||
Environment, Technology, and Society |
Economics Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Core Courses | ||
ECON 1115 | Principles of Macroeconomics | 4 |
ECON 1116 | Principles of Microeconomics | 4 |
ECON 2315 | Macroeconomic Theory | 4 |
ECON 2316 | Microeconomic Theory | 4 |
ECON 2350 | Statistics for Economists | 4 |
ECON 2560 | Applied Econometrics | 4 |
ECON 3423 | Environmental Economics | 4 |
Supporting Courses | ||
Calculus | ||
Complete one of the following. It is recommended that MATH 1241 or higher is chosen: | 4 | |
Calculus for Business and Economics | ||
or MATH 1241 | Calculus 1 | |
or MATH 1245 | Calculus with Applications | |
or MATH 1251 | Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 1 | |
or MATH 1340 | Intensive Calculus for Engineers | |
or MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | |
Computer Science | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Computer Science and Its Applications and Lab for CS 1100 | ||
Programming with Data and Data Science Programming Practicum | ||
Fundamentals of Information Analytics | ||
Electives | ||
Complete two courses in the following ranges, with only one at the 1000 level: | 8 | |
ECON 1200–ECON 1999 | ||
ECON 2990 –ECON 4689 | ||
ECON 4900–ECON 4996 | ||
ECON 5200–ECON 5999 |
Integrative Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
ENVR 1000 | Marine and Environmental Sciences at Northeastern | 1 |
or ECON 1000 | Economics at Northeastern | |
or INSC 1000 | Science at Northeastern | |
Environmental and Sustainability Sciences Integrative Course | ||
Complete one of the following (courses used as electives may not overlap with courses used as integrative): | 4 | |
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | ||
Applied Social-Ecological Systems Modeling | ||
Advanced Spatial Analysis | ||
Economics Integrative Course | ||
Complete one of the following (courses used as electives may not overlap with courses used as integrative): | 4 | |
Economics of Sustainability | ||
International Food Policy | ||
Energy Economics | ||
Capstone | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Solving Emerging Environmental Challenges through Capstone | ||
Senior Thesis | ||
Senior Economics Seminar | ||
Senior Economics Thesis |
English Requirements (First-Year Writing and Advanced Writing in the Disciplines)
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ENGW 1111 | First-Year Writing | 4 |
or ENGW 1102 | First-Year Writing for Multilingual Writers | |
ENGW 3307 | Advanced Writing in the Sciences | 4 |
or ENGW 3308 | Advanced Writing in the Social Sciences | |
or ENGW 3315 | Interdisciplinary Advanced Writing in the Disciplines |
Major GPA/Credit Requirement
Grades in the following four economics courses must average to a minimum of C (2.000):
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ECON 2315 | Macroeconomic Theory | 4 |
ECON 2316 | Microeconomic Theory | 4 |
ECON 2350 | Statistics for Economists | 4 |
ECON 2560 | Applied Econometrics | 4 |
83 semester hours required in the major
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ECON 1115 | 4 | CS 1100, DS 2000 and DS 2001, or MISM 2510 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
ENGW 1111 or 1102 | 4 | ECON 1116 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
ENVR 1000 or ECON 1000 | 1 | ENVR 2200 or 1200 | 4 | ||||
ENVR 1400 and ENVR 1401 | 5 | ENVR elective 1 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1231, 1241, 1245, 1251, 1340, or 1341 | 4 | ||||||
18 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ECON 2315 | 4 | ECON 2316 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | |
EEMB 2302 | 4 | ECON 2350 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
EEMB 2303 | 1 | ENVR 2515 | 4 | ||||
ECON elective 1 | 4 | ENVR elective 3 | 4 | ||||
ENVR elective 2 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | ECON 2560 | 4 | ENVR elective 4 | 4 | Co-op | ||
ECON 3423 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENGW 3308, 3307, or 3315 | 4 | ||||||
ENVR 3150, 5350, 5450, or 5563 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | ENVR 4050, 4997, ECON 4692, or ECON 4997 | 4 | |||||
ECON 1711, 3404, or 3425 | 4 | ||||||
ECON elective 2 | 4 | ||||||
ENVR elective 5 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 131 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-sustainability-sciences-journalism-bs/
The climate crisis and other staggering environmental challenges render it essential that we train a new generation of journalists with a strong scientific foundation in environmental science. Clearheaded and scientifically grounded reporting on environmental issues will be essential for tackling these and other future challenges. This combined major is designed to provide training that merges the basic and applied science underlying environmental change with the best principles and journalistic practices to enable students to pursue careers across a wide range of science communication fields.
Due to curricular overlap, students enrolled in this program cannot declare a double major with or declare a minor in ecology and evolutionary biology, environmental studies, or geoscience.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Restrictions
Due to curricular overlap, students enrolled in this program cannot declare a double major with or declare a minor in ecology and evolutionary biology, environmental studies, or geoscience.
Environmental and Sustainability Sciences Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Core Courses | ||
ENVR 1400 and ENVR 1401 | Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Lab for ENVR 1400 | 5 |
ENVR 2200 | Earth's Changing Cycles | 4 |
or ENVR 1200 | Dynamic Earth | |
EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | 5 |
ENVR 2515 | Sustainable Development | 4 |
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | ||
Introduction to Environmental, Social, and Biological Data and Lab for ENVR 1500 | ||
Complete four courses from the following lists: | 16 | |
Earth Oceans and Environmental Change | ||
Earth Materials and Lab for ENVR 2310 | ||
Global Oceanic Change | ||
Oceanography | ||
Climate and Atmospheric Change | ||
Conservation, Restoration, and Management | ||
Introduction to Evolution | ||
Conservation Biology | ||
Landscape and Restoration Ecology | ||
Ecosystem-Based Management | ||
Sustainable Planning and Development | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Water Resources | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Environment and Society | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
Ecological Economics | ||
Environment, Technology, and Society | ||
Applied Social-Ecological Systems Modeling |
Journalism Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Foundation Courses | ||
JRNL 1150 | Understanding Today’s News | 4 |
JRNL 1101 and JRNL 1102 | Journalism 1: Fundamentals of Reporting and Writing and Journalist’s Toolbox | 5 |
JRNL 2201 | Journalism 2: Intermediate Reporting | 4 |
Visual Storytelling | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Visual Storytelling in Journalism | ||
News Documentary Production | ||
Photojournalism | ||
Video News Reporting and Producing | ||
Law and Ethics | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
The First Amendment and the Media | ||
Ethics and Diversity in the News Media | ||
Electives | ||
Complete any four journalism electives with two at the 3000-level or above. | 16 |
Integrative Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
ENVR 1000 | Marine and Environmental Sciences at Northeastern | 1 |
or JRNL 1000 | Journalism at Northeastern | |
Co-op | ||
EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op | 1 |
or EEAM 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op | |
Integrative Course | ||
Courses used as electives may not overlap with the following: | ||
ENVR 4050 | Solving Emerging Environmental Challenges through Capstone | 4 |
or ENVR 4997 | Senior Thesis | |
JRNL 3650 | Science Writing | 4 |
or JRNL 3700 | Data Storytelling |
English Requirements (First-Year Writing and Advanced Writing in the Disciplines)
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ENGW 1111 | First-Year Writing | 4 |
or ENGW 1102 | First-Year Writing for Multilingual Writers | |
ENGW 3307 | Advanced Writing in the Sciences | 4 |
or ENGW 3315 | Interdisciplinary Advanced Writing in the Disciplines | |
or JRNL 2301 | Visual Storytelling in Journalism |
Major GPA/Credit Requirement
Grades in the following must average to a minimum of C (2.000):
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Journalism 1: Fundamentals of Reporting and Writing | ||
Journalism 2: Intermediate Reporting | ||
Visual Storytelling in Journalism |
83 semester hours required in the major
Program Requirement
132 total semester hours required
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENVR 1000 or JRNL 1000 | 1 | ENVR 2200 or 1200 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
ENGW 1111 or 1102 | 4 | JRNL 1101 and JRNL 1102 | 5 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
ENVR 1400 and ENVR 1401 | 5 | ENVR elective 1 | 4 | ||||
JRNL 1150 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | 5 | ENVR 2515 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | |
JRNL 2201 | 4 | ENVR 1500 and ENVR 1501 (or ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301) | 5 | Elective | 4 | ||
ENVR elective 2 | 4 | JRNL 2301, 5309, 5310, or 5314 | 4 | ||||
JRNL elective 1 | 4 | EESC 2000 or EEAM 2000 | 1 | ||||
ENVR elective 3 | 4 | ||||||
JRNL elective 2 | |||||||
17 | 18 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | ENVR 4050, 4997, JRNL 3650, or JRNL 3700 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | ||
JRNL 3550 or 4650 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENVR elective 4 | 4 | ||||||
JRNL elective 3 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | ENVR 4997, 4050, JRNL 3650, or JRNL 3700 | 4 | |||||
JRNL elective 4 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 134 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-sustainability-sciences-landscape-architecture-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Environmental and Sustainability Sciences Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Environmental and Sustainability Sciences Required Courses | ||
Core Courses | ||
EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | 5 |
ENVR 1200 and ENVR 1201 | Dynamic Earth and Lab for ENVR 1200 | 4 |
or ENVR 2200 | Earth's Changing Cycles | |
ENVR 1400 and ENVR 1401 | Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Lab for ENVR 1400 | 5 |
ENVR 2515 | Sustainable Development | 4 |
Complete one course from each category: | ||
Skills | 4-5 | |
Introduction to Environmental, Social, and Biological Data and Lab for ENVR 1500 | ||
Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | ||
Earth, Oceans, and Environmental Change | 4-5 | |
Earth Materials and Lab for ENVR 2310 | ||
Global Oceanic Change | ||
Oceanography | ||
Climate and Atmospheric Change | ||
Coastal Processes, Adaptation, and Resilience | ||
Global Biogeochemistry | ||
Conservation, Restoration, and Management | 4 | |
Introduction to Evolution | ||
Conservation Biology | ||
Landscape and Restoration Ecology | ||
Ecosystem-Based Management | ||
Streams and Watershed Ecology | ||
Sustainable Planning and Development | 4 | |
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Water Resources | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | ||
Applied Social-Ecological Systems Modeling | ||
Climate Adaptation and Nature-Based Solutions | ||
Environment and Society | 4 | |
Urban Ecology | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
Ecological Economics | ||
Environment, Technology, and Society |
Landscape Architecture Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ARCH 1110 | Fundamental Architectural Representation | 4 |
ARCH 1120 | Fundamental Architectural Design | 6 |
LARC 2130 | Sustainable Urban Site Design | 6 |
LARC 2230 | Introduction to Sustainable Site Planning and Design | 4 |
LARC 2330 | Cities, Landscape, and Modern Culture | 4 |
LARC 2340 | Cities, Landscape, and Contemporary Culture | 4 |
LARC 2430 | Plants, People, and Landscape Change | 4 |
Landscape Architecture Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete three of the following: | 12-14 | |
Architecture Topics Abroad: Theory | ||
Architecture Topics Abroad: Drawing | ||
Advanced Topics in Architectural History | ||
Advanced Architectural Communication | ||
Urban and Architectural History Abroad | ||
Sustainable Site Construction and Detailing | ||
Planting Design | ||
Landscape Planning and Urbanism Studio | ||
Landscape Ecology | ||
Sustainable Landscape Practices | ||
Urban Landscape Seminar | ||
Implementation and Visualization for Urban Environments 1 | ||
Implementation and Visualization for Urban Environments 2 |
Capstone/Integrative Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Senior Thesis | ||
Comprehensive Design Studio | ||
Landscape Ecology | ||
Solving Emerging Environmental Challenges through Capstone |
Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Landscape Architecture Major Credit Requirement
Complete a minimum of 84 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirements
132 total semester hours required
Four-Years, Two Co-ops
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
LARC 2430 | 4 | ARCH 1110 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
ENVR 1400 and ENVR 1401 | 5 | ARCH 1120 | 6 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | Elective | 4 |
ENVR 2200 | 4 | EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | 5 | ||||
Elective | 4 | EEAM 2000 | 1 | ||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
LARC 2130 | 6 | LARC 2340 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
LARC 2230 | 4 | ENVR 3300 and ENVR 3301 | 5 | Elective | 4 | ||
LARC 2330 | 4 | LARC elective | 4 | ||||
ENVR elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
18 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENVR elective | 4 | ENGW 3314 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
ENVR elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENVR elective | 4 | ||||||
LARC elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | ENVR 2515 | 4 | ||||
Capstone | 4 | ||||||
ENVR elective | 4 | ||||||
LARC elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 132 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/environmental-sustainability-sciences-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Coursework
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Foundational Classes | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8-9 | |
Dynamic Earth and Lab for ENVR 1200 | ||
or ENVR 2200 | Earth's Changing Cycles | |
Foundations in Environmental and Sustainability Sciences and Lab for ENVR 1400 | ||
Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | ||
Sustainable Development | ||
Advanced Coursework | ||
Complete four courses from this list (at least three courses need to be at the 3000 level or above): | 16-19 | |
Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | ||
Introduction to Evolution | ||
Marine Biology | ||
Conservation Biology | ||
Ecological and Conservation Genomics | ||
Landscape and Restoration Ecology | ||
Global Climate Change | ||
Dynamic Earth and Lab for ENVR 1200 | ||
Earth's Changing Cycles | ||
Earth Materials and Lab for ENVR 2310 | ||
Global Oceanic Change | ||
Food Security and Sustainability | ||
Water Resources | ||
Oceanography | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
Ecological Economics | ||
International Environmental Policy | ||
Environment, Technology, and Society |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/geosciences-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Required Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ENVR 1200 and ENVR 1201 | Dynamic Earth and Lab for ENVR 1200 | 5 |
ENVR 2200 | Earth's Changing Cycles | 4 |
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Earth Materials and Lab for ENVR 2310 | ||
Earth Landforms and Processes and Lab for ENVR 2340 |
Geology Elective
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete three of the following: | 12-14 | |
Earth Landforms and Processes and Lab for ENVR 2340 | ||
Global Oceanic Change | ||
Water Resources | ||
Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | ||
Environmental Geochemistry | ||
Oceanography | ||
Climate and Atmospheric Change | ||
Soil Science | ||
Environmental Science Field Seminar Abroad | ||
Environmental Planning | ||
Sustainable Energy and Climate Solutions |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/marine-biology-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Marine Biology Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
ENVR 1000 | Marine and Environmental Sciences at Northeastern | 1 |
or INSC 1000 | Science at Northeastern | |
Foundations Courses | ||
EEMB 1101 and EEMB 1102 | Foundations in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Lab for EEMB 1101 | 5 |
EEMB 1105 and EEMB 1106 | Foundations in Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics and Lab for EEMB 1105 | 5 |
Genetics | ||
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
Ecology | ||
EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | 5 |
Evolution | ||
EEMB 2400 | Introduction to Evolution | 4 |
Marine Biology | ||
EEMB 2700 and EEMB 2701 | Marine Biology and Lab for EEMB 2700 | 5 |
Conservation | ||
EEMB 3460 | Conservation Biology | 4 |
Scientific Communication | ||
ENVR 4000 | Science Communication and Professional Development | 4 |
Capstone | ||
Complete one of the following: | 1-4 | |
Biology Capstone | ||
Earth and Environmental Science Capstone | ||
Senior Thesis |
Supporting Courses for Marine Biology
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Mathematics | ||
MATH 1251 | Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 1 | 4 |
or MATH 1241 | Calculus 1 | |
or MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | |
Introduction to Data | ||
ENVR 1500 and ENVR 1501 | Introduction to Environmental, Social, and Biological Data and Lab for ENVR 1500 | 5 |
Biostatistics | ||
ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501 | Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | 5 |
Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | ||
Environmental Geochemistry | ||
Environmental Pollution | ||
Physics | ||
Complete a lecture/lab set for Physics 1: | 5 | |
Physics 1 | ||
Physics for Life Sciences 1 and Lab for PHYS 1145 (recommended) | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 and Recitation for PHYS 1161 | ||
Physics 1 for Bioscience and Bioengineering and Lab for PHYS 1171 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1171 |
Marine Biology Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ENVR 3125 | Global Oceanic Change | 4 |
or ENVR 3600 | Oceanography | |
Complete five of the following: | 20-21 | |
Comparative Neurobiology | ||
Ecosystems Ecology | ||
Ecological and Conservation Genomics | ||
Disease Ecology | ||
Animal Behavior | ||
Population Dynamics | ||
Global Oceanic Change (If not used to fulfill another requirement of this program) | ||
Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 | ||
Environmental Pollution | ||
Wetlands | ||
Ecosystem-Based Management | ||
Marine Spatial Planning | ||
Elective courses available at Nahant campus to students approved for PlusOne admission to the MS Marine Biology program: | ||
New England Marine Biomes | ||
Experimental Design Marine Ecology | ||
Advanced Field Methods in Marine Ecology | ||
Sustainability of the Land-Sea Interface |
Marine Biology Major Credit/GPA Requirements
Complete 91 semester hours in the major with a cumulative GPA of 2.000.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENVR 1000 | 1 | EEMB 1105 and EEMB 1106 | 5 | Vacation | Elective | 4 | |
EEMB 1101 and EEMB 1102 | 5 | EEMB 2700 and EEMB 2701 | 5 | Elective | 4 | ||
MATH 1251 | 4 | CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | 5 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
18 | 19 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | 5 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | PHYS 1161 and PHYS 1162 and PHYS 1163 | 5 |
EEMB 2400 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENVR 1500 and ENVR 1501 | 5 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
19 | 0 | 0 | 9 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501 and ENVR 2502 | 5 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3303 | 4 |
ENVR 3410 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENVR 3600 | 4 | ||||||
Marine biology elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | 5 | ENVR 4000 | 4 | ||||
EEMB 3460 | 4 | ENVR 4900 | 1 | ||||
Marine biology elective | 4 | Marine biology elective | 4 | ||||
Marine biology elective | 4 | Marine biology elective | 4 | ||||
17 | 13 | ||||||
Total Hours: 128 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/marine-biology-three-seas/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Marine Biology Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
ENVR 1000 | Marine and Environmental Sciences at Northeastern | 1 |
or INSC 1000 | Science at Northeastern | |
Foundations Courses | ||
EEMB 1101 and EEMB 1102 | Foundations in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Lab for EEMB 1101 | 5 |
EEMB 1105 and EEMB 1106 | Foundations in Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics and Lab for EEMB 1105 | 5 |
Genetics | ||
BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | Genetics and Molecular Biology and Lab for BIOL 2301 | 5 |
Ecology | ||
EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | Ecology and Lab for EEMB 2302 | 5 |
Evolution | ||
EEMB 2400 | Introduction to Evolution | 4 |
Marine Biology | ||
EEMB 2700 and EEMB 2701 | Marine Biology and Lab for EEMB 2700 | 5 |
Conservation | ||
EEMB 3460 | Conservation Biology | 4 |
Scientific Communication | ||
ENVR 4000 | Science Communication and Professional Development | 4 |
Capstone | ||
Complete one of the following: | 1–4 | |
Biology Capstone | ||
Earth and Environmental Science Capstone | ||
Senior Thesis |
Supporting Courses for Marine Biology
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Mathematics | ||
MATH 1251 | Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 1 | 4 |
or MATH 1241 | Calculus 1 | |
or MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | |
Introduction to Data | ||
ENVR 1500 and ENVR 1501 | Introduction to Environmental, Social, and Biological Data and Lab for ENVR 1500 | 5 |
Biostatistics | ||
ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501 | Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | 5 |
Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
Complete one of the following: | 4–5 | |
Organic Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 2311 | ||
Environmental Geochemistry | ||
Environmental Pollution | ||
Physics | ||
Complete one of the following lecture/lab sets: | 5 | |
Physics 1 | ||
Physics for Life Sciences 1 and Lab for PHYS 1145 (recommended) | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 and Recitation for PHYS 1161 | ||
Physics 1 for Bioscience and Bioengineering and Lab for PHYS 1171 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1171 |
Marine Field Research Courses—Three Seas Program
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete the following at the Northeastern Nahant campus: | ||
EEMB 5303 | Marine Biology Careers Seminar | 1 |
EEMB 5510 | New England Marine Biomes | 4 |
EEMB 5522 | Experimental Design Marine Ecology | 4 |
EEMB 5542 | Marine Spatial Planning | 4 |
EEMB 5546 | Sustainability of the Land-Sea Interface | 3 |
EEMB 5589 | Diving Research Methods | 2 |
Courses completed at locations other than the Northeastern Nahant campus: | ||
EEMB 5504 and EEMB 5505 | Biology of Corals and Lab for EEMB 5504 | 3 |
EEMB 5506 and EEMB 5507 | Biology and Ecology of Fishes and Lab for EEMB 5506 | 3 |
EEMB 5508 | Marine Birds and Mammals | 3 |
EEMB 5518 and EEMB 5519 | Ocean and Coastal Processes and Lab for EEMB 5518 | 3 |
EEMB 5520 | Tropical Marine Ecology | 2 |
EEMB 5538 | Conservation and Restoration of Marine Systems | 3 |
Complete one of the following: | 3 | |
Marine Invertebrate Zoology and Botany and Lab for EEMB 5533 | ||
Changing Global Oceans and Lab for EEMB 5540 |
Marine Biology Major Credit/GPA Requirements
Complete 105 semester hours in the major with a cumulative GPA of 2.000.
Program Requirement
134 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, One Co-op in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENVR 1000 | 1 | EEMB 1105 and EEMB 1106 | 5 | Electives (if needed) | Elective (if needed) | ||
EEMB 1101 and EEMB 1102 | 5 | EEMB 2700 and EEMB 2701 | 5 | ||||
MATH 1251 | 4 | CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | 5 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
18 | 19 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
EEMB 2302 and EEMB 2303 | 5 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | PHYS 1161 and PHYS 1162 and PHYS 1163 | 5 |
EEMB 2400 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENVR 1500 and ENVR 1501 | 5 | ||||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
19 | 0 | 0 | 9 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENVR 2500 and ENVR 2501 and ENVR 2502 | 5 | BIOL 2301 and BIOL 2302 | 5 | Electives (if needed) | Electives (if needed) | ||
ENVR 3410 | 4 | ENVR 4000 | 4 | ||||
EEMB 3460 | 4 | ENVR 4900 | 1 | ||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
17 | 14 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
EEMB 5303 | 1 | EEMB 5504 and EEMB 5505 | 3 | ||||
EEMB 5510 | 4 | EEMB 5506 and EEMB 5507 | 3 | ||||
EEMB 5522 | 4 | EEMB 5508 | 3 | ||||
EEMB 5542 | 4 | EEMB 5518 and EEMB 5519 | 3 | ||||
EEMB 5546 | 3 | EEMB 5520 | 2 | ||||
EEMB 5589 | 2 | EEMB 5538 | 3 | ||||
EEMB 5540 and EEMB 5541 | 3 | ||||||
18 | 20 | ||||||
Total Hours: 134 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/marine-environmental/marine-sciences-minor/
Required Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
EEMB 1101 and EEMB 1102 | Foundations in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Lab for EEMB 1101 | 5 |
ENVR 3600 | Oceanography | 4 |
or ENVR 3125 | Global Oceanic Change |
Skills Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Introduction to Environmental, Social, and Biological Data and Lab for ENVR 1500 | ||
Biostatistics and Lab for ENVR 2500 | ||
Geographic Information Systems and Lab for ENVR 3300 |
Elective Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete three of the following: | 11-15 | |
Marine Biology and Lab for EEMB 2700 | ||
Global Oceanic Change | ||
Oceanography | ||
Wetlands | ||
Technology and the Blue Economy | ||
Courses offered in Nahant, MA: | ||
New England Marine Biomes | ||
Experimental Design Marine Ecology | ||
Marine Spatial Planning | ||
Sustainability of the Land-Sea Interface |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/mathematics/
Bachelor of Arts (BA)
Bachelor of Science (BS)
- Mathematics
- Biology and Mathematics
- Computer Science and Mathematics
- Data Science and Mathematics
- Design and Mathematics
- Economics and Mathematics
- Mathematics and Business Administration
- Mathematics and Philosophy
- Mathematics and Physics
- Mathematics and Political Science
- Mathematics and Psychology
- Mathematics and Sociology
Minor
Accelerated Programs
See Accelerated Bachelor/Graduate Degree Programs
The colleges that offer the following program have approved suspension of admissions to this program for 2025-2026:
Mathematics Courses
MATH 1000. Mathematics at Northeastern. (1 Hour)
Designed for freshman math majors to introduce them to one another, their major, their college, and the University. Students are introduced to our advising system, register for next semester’s courses, and learn more about co-op. Also helps students develop the academic and interpersonal skills necessary to succeed as a university student.
MATH 1120. Precalculus. (4 Hours)
Focuses on linear, polynomial, exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions. Emphasis is placed on understanding, manipulating, and graphing these basic functions, their inverses and compositions, and using them to model real-world situations (that is, exponential growth and decay, periodic phenomena). Equations involving these functions are solved using appropriate techniques. Special consideration is given to choosing reasonable functions to fit numerical data.
MATH 1130. College Math for Business and Economics. (4 Hours)
Introduces students to some of the important mathematical concepts and tools (such as modeling revenue, cost and profit with functions) used to solve problems in business and economics. Assumes familiarity with the basic properties of linear, polynomial, exponential, and logarithmic functions. Topics include the method of least squares, regression curves, solving equations involving functions, compound interest, amortization, and other consumer finance models. (Graphing calculator required, see instructor for make and model.)
MATH 1213. Interactive Mathematics. (4 Hours)
Develops problem-solving skills while simultaneously teaching mathematics concepts. Each unit centers on a particular applied problem, which serves to introduce the relevant mathematical topics. These may include but are not limited to polling theory, rate of change, the concepts behind derivatives, probability, binomial distributions, and statistics. The course is not taught in the traditional lecture format and is particularly suited to students who work well in collaborative groups and who enjoy writing about the concepts they are learning. Assessment is based on portfolios, written projects, solutions to “problems of the week,” and exams.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1215. Mathematical Thinking. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the development of mathematical thinking and its use in a variety of contexts to translate real-world problems into mathematical form and, through analysis, to obtain new information and reach conclusions about the original problems. Mathematical topics include symbolic logic, truth tables, valid arguments, counting principles, and topics in probability theory such as Bayes’ theorem, the binomial distribution, and expected value.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1216. Recitation for MATH 1215. (0 Hours)
Provides small-group discussion format to cover material in MATH 1215.
MATH 1220. Mathematics of Art. (4 Hours)
Presents mathematical connections and foundations for art. Topics vary and may include aspects of linear perspective and vanishing points, symmetry and patterns, tilings and polygons, Platonic solids and polyhedra, golden ratio, non-Euclidean geometry, hyperbolic geometry, fractals, and other topics. Includes connections and examples in different cultures.
Attribute(s): NUpath Creative Express/Innov, NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1231. Calculus for Business and Economics. (4 Hours)
Provides an overview of differential calculus including derivatives of power, exponential, logarithmic, logistic functions, and functions built from these. Derivatives are used to model rates of change, to estimate change, to optimize functions, and in marginal analysis. The integral calculus is applied to accumulation functions and future value. Emphasis is on realistic business and economics problems, the development of mathematical models from raw business data, and the translation of mathematical results into verbal expression appropriate for the business setting. Also features a semester-long marketing project in which students gather raw data, model it, and use calculus to make business decisions; each student is responsible for a ten-minute presentation. (Graphing calculator required, see instructor for make and model.)
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1241. Calculus 1. (4 Hours)
Serves as both the first half of a two-semester calculus sequence and as a self-contained one-semester course in differential and integral calculus. Introduces basic concepts and techniques of differentiation and integration and applies them to polynomial, exponential, log, and trigonometric functions. Emphasizes the derivative as rate of change and integral as accumulator. Applications include optimization, growth and decay, area, volume, and motion.
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1242. Calculus 2. (4 Hours)
Continues MATH 1241. Introduces additional techniques of integration and numerical approximations of integrals and the use of integral tables; further applications of integrals. Also introduces differential equations and slope fields, and elementary solutions. Introduces functions of several variables, partial derivatives, and multiple integrals.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1231 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1241 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1341 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1245. Calculus with Applications. (4 Hours)
Covers differential and integral calculus of one variable and an introduction to differential equations. Includes applications that show how calculus is used to solve problems in science. Also includes a group project related to a real-world problem in students' areas of study. The project involves a differential equation and compares the solution with experiment. Previous examples of projects include modeling of coral reefs, analysis of an epidemic using the data of the World Health Organization, analysis of a two-component kinetic model of drug concentration, and gate analysis of hip to knee experiment and comparison with the solution of the pendulum equation. Prior exposure to high-school-level calculus is recommended.
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1251. Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 1. (4 Hours)
Begins with the fundamentals of differential calculus and proceeds to the specific type of differential equation problems encountered in biological research. Presents methods for the solutions of these equations and how the exact solutions are obtained from actual laboratory data. Topics include differential calculus: basics, the derivative, the rules of differentiation, curve plotting, exponentials and logarithms, and trigonometric functions; using technology to understand derivatives; biological kinetics: zero- and first-order processes, processes tending toward equilibrium, bi- and tri-exponential processes, and biological half-life; differential equations: particular and general solutions to homogeneous and nonhomogeneous linear equations with constant coefficients, systems of two linear differential equations; compartmental problems: nonzero initial concentration, two-compartment series dilution, diffusion between compartments, population dynamics; and introduction to integration.
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1252. Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 2. (4 Hours)
Continues MATH 1251. Begins with the integral calculus and proceeds quickly to more advanced topics in differential equations. Introduces linear algebra and uses matrix methods to analyze functions of several variables and to solve larger systems of differential equations. Advanced topics in reaction kinetics are covered. The integral and differential calculus of functions of several variables is followed by the study of numerical methods in integration and solutions of differential equations. Provides a short introduction to probability. Covers Taylor polynomials and infinite series. Special topics include reaction kinetics: Michaelis-Menten processes, tracer experiments, and inflow and outflow through membranes.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1251 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1260. Math Fundamentals for Games. (4 Hours)
Discusses linear algebra and vector geometry in two-, three-, and four-dimensional space. Examines length, dot product, and trigonometry. Introduces linear and affine transformations. Discusses complex numbers in two-space, cross product in three-space, and quaternions in four-space. Provides explicit formulas for rotations in three-space. Examines functions of one argument and treats exponentials and logarithms. Describes parametric curves in space. Discusses binomials, discrete probability, Bézier curves, and random numbers. Concludes with the concept of the derivative, the rules for computing derivatives, and the notion of a differential equation.
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1340. Intensive Calculus for Engineers. (6 Hours)
Contains the material from the first semester of MATH 1341, preceded by material emphasizing the strengthening of precalculus skills. Topics include properties of exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions; differential calculus; and introductory integral calculus.
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1341. Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering. (4 Hours)
Covers definition, calculation, and major uses of the derivative, as well as an introduction to integration. Topics include limits; the derivative as a limit; rules for differentiation; and formulas for the derivatives of algebraic, trigonometric, and exponential/logarithmic functions. Also discusses applications of derivatives to motion, density, optimization, linear approximations, and related rates. Topics on integration include the definition of the integral as a limit of sums, antidifferentiation, the fundamental theorem of calculus, and integration by substitution.
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1342. Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering. (4 Hours)
Covers further techniques and applications of integration, infinite series, and introduction to vectors. Topics include integration by parts; numerical integration; improper integrals; separable differential equations; and areas, volumes, and work as integrals. Also discusses convergence of sequences and series of numbers, power series representations and approximations, 3D coordinates, parameterizations, vectors and dot products, tangent and normal vectors, velocity, and acceleration in space. Requires prior completion of MATH 1341 or permission of head mathematics advisor.
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 1365. Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning. (4 Hours)
Covers the basics of mathematical reasoning and problem solving to prepare incoming math majors for more challenging mathematical courses at Northeastern. Focuses on learning to write logically sound mathematical arguments and to analyze such arguments appearing in mathematical books and courses. Includes fundamental mathematical concepts such as sets, relations, and functions.
MATH 1465. Intensive Mathematical Reasoning. (4 Hours)
Introduces proofs and theoretical mathematics. Covers mathematical reasoning and problem solving to prepare math and computer science majors for theoretical mathematics and computer science courses. Focuses on learning to read and write logically sound mathematical arguments. Topics include logical reasoning, proof techniques, sets, the integers and modular arithmetic, relations, functions, cardinality, countable and uncountable sets, and elements of algebra and group theory. Intended for students seeking a more intensive version of MATH 1365.
MATH 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MATH 2201. History of Mathematics. (4 Hours)
Traces the development of mathematics from its earliest beginning to the present. Emphasis is on the contributions of various cultures including the Babylonians, Egyptians, Mayans, Greeks, Indians, and Arabs. Computations and constructions are worked out using the techniques and notations of these peoples. The role of mathematics in the development of science is traced throughout, including the contributions of Descartes, Kepler, Fermat, and Newton. More modern developments are discussed as time permits.
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning, NUpath Interpreting Culture
MATH 2280. Statistics and Software. (4 Hours)
Provides an introduction to basic statistical techniques and the reasoning behind each statistical procedures. Covers appropriate statistical data analysis methods for applications in health and social sciences. Also examines a statistical package such as SPSS or SAS to implement the data analysis on computer. Topics include descriptive statistics, elementary probability theory, parameter estimation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, nonparametric inference, and analysis of variance and regression with a minimum of mathematical derivations.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
MATH 2321. Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering. (4 Hours)
Extends the techniques of calculus to functions of several variables; introduces vector fields and vector calculus in two and three dimensions. Topics include lines and planes, 3D graphing, partial derivatives, the gradient, tangent planes and local linearization, optimization, multiple integrals, line and surface integrals, the divergence theorem, and theorems of Green and Stokes with applications to science and engineering and several computer lab projects. Prior completion of Calculus 2 is strongly recommended.
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
MATH 2322. Recitation for MATH 2321. (0 Hours)
Provides small-group discussion format to cover material in MATH 2321.
MATH 2331. Linear Algebra. (4 Hours)
Uses the Gauss-Jordan elimination algorithm to analyze and find bases for subspaces such as the image and kernel of a linear transformation. Covers the geometry of linear transformations: orthogonality, the Gram-Schmidt process, rotation matrices, and least squares fit. Examines diagonalization and similarity, and the spectral theorem and the singular value decomposition. Is primarily for math and science majors; applications are drawn from many technical fields. Computation is aided by the use of software such as Maple or MATLAB, and graphing calculators.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1342 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1242 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1252 with a minimum grade of D- or CS 1800 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 2341. Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering. (4 Hours)
Studies ordinary differential equations, their applications, and techniques for solving them including numerical methods (through computer labs using MS Excel and MATLAB), Laplace transforms, and linear algebra. Topics include linear and nonlinear first- and second-order equations and applications include electrical and mechanical systems, forced oscillation, and resonance. Topics from linear algebra, such as matrices, row-reduction, vector spaces, and eigenvalues/eigenvectors, are developed and applied to systems of differential equations. Prior completion of Calculus 2 is strongly recommended.
MATH 2342. Recitation for MATH 2341. (0 Hours)
Provides small-group discussion format to cover material in MATH 2341.
MATH 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MATH 2991. Research in Mathematics. (1-4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct introductory-level research or creative endeavors under faculty supervision. May be repeated seven times.
MATH 3000. Co-op and Experiential Learning Reflection Seminar 1. (1 Hour)
Intended for math majors who have completed their first co-op assignment or other integrated experiential learning component of the NU Core. The goal is to examine the mathematical problems encountered in these experiences and relate them to courses already taken and to the student’s future program. Faculty members and other guests contribute to the discussion. Grades are determined by the student’s participation in the course and the completion of a final paper.
MATH 3081. Probability and Statistics. (4 Hours)
Focuses on probability theory. Topics include sample space; conditional probability and independence; discrete and continuous probability distributions for one and for several random variables; expectation; variance; special distributions including binomial, Poisson, and normal distributions; law of large numbers; and central limit theorem. Also introduces basic statistical theory including estimation of parameters, confidence intervals, and hypothesis testing.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1342 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1252 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1242 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
MATH 3082. Recitation for MATH 3081. (0 Hours)
Provides small-group discussion format to cover material in MATH 3081.
MATH 3090. Exploration of Modern Mathematics. (4 Hours)
Offers students a research-minded, elementary, and intuitive introduction to the interplay between algebra, geometry, analysis, and topology using an interactive and experimental approach. Intended for math majors, math combined majors, and students pursuing a math minor; all others should obtain permission of instructor.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1242 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1252 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1342 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 3150. Real Analysis. (4 Hours)
Provides the theoretical underpinnings of calculus and the advanced study of functions. Emphasis is on precise definitions and rigorous proof. Topics include the real numbers and completeness, continuity and differentiability, the Riemann integral, the fundamental theorem of calculus, inverse function and implicit function theorems, and limits and convergence. Required of all mathematics majors.
Prerequisite(s): (MATH 1365 with a minimum grade of D- ; MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
MATH 3175. Group Theory. (4 Hours)
Presents basic concepts and techniques of the group theory: symmetry groups, axiomatic definition of groups, important classes of groups (abelian groups, cyclic groups, additive and multiplicative groups of residues, and permutation groups), Cayley table, subgroups, group homomorphism, cosets, the Lagrange theorem, normal subgroups, quotient groups, and direct products. Studies structural properties of groups. Possible applications include geometry, number theory, crystallography, physics, and combinatorics.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2321 with a minimum grade of D- ; MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 3181. Advanced Probability and Statistics. (4 Hours)
Focuses on probability theory needed to prepare students for research and advanced coursework in the physical and data sciences. Examples and homework problems come from physics, chemistry, biology, computer science, data science, and electrical engineering. Topics include sample spaces; conditional probability and independence; discrete and continuous probability distributions for one and for several random variables; expectation; variance; special distributions including binomial, Poisson, and normal distributions; law of large numbers; and the central limit theorem. Introduces basic statistical theory including estimation of parameters, confidence intervals, and hypothesis testing. This course is proof-based and emphasizes developing students' abilities in mathematical proof writing.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2321 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 3275. Advanced Group Theory. (4 Hours)
Serves as an accelerated introduction to the theory of groups, intended for students who wish to take a more advanced version of MATH 3175. Prior knowledge of group theory is not assumed. Introduces homomorphisms, subgroups, normal subgroups, quotient groups, and group actions, illustrated with a variety of examples. Subsequent topics include the class equation, simple groups, the Sylow theorems, and their applications to the classification of finite simple groups. Discusses classical matrix groups, with an emphasis on SU(2) and SO(3) as fundamental examples, and introduces the notion of a Lie algebra. Develops representation theory of finite groups and its correspondence to the representation theory of compact Lie groups sketched, again using SU(2) as an example. Students not meeting course prerequisites may seek permission of instructor.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1365 with a minimum grade of B ; MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of B
MATH 3331. Differential Geometry. (4 Hours)
Studies differential geometry, focusing on curves and surfaces in 3D space. The material presented here can serve as preparation for a more advanced course in Riemannian geometry or differential topology.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2321 with a minimum grade of D- ; MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 3341. Dynamical Systems. (4 Hours)
Studies dynamical systems and their applications as they arise from differential equations. Solutions are obtained and analyzed as parameterized curves in the plane and used as a means of understanding the evolution of physical processes. Applications include conservative systems, predator-prey interactions, and cooperation and competition of species.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2341 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 3527. Number Theory 1. (4 Hours)
Introduces number theory. Topics include linear diophantine equations, congruences, design of magic squares, Fermat’s little theorem, Euler’s formula, Euler’s phi function, computing powers and roots in modular arithmetic, the RSA encryption system, primitive roots and indices, and the law of quadratic reciprocity. As time permits, may cover diophantine approximation and Pell’s equation, elliptic curves, points on elliptic curves, and Fermat’s last theorem.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1342 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1242 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1252 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 3530. Numerical Analysis. (4 Hours)
Considers various problems including roots of nonlinear equations; simultaneous linear equations: direct and iterative methods of solution; eigenvalue problems; interpolation; and curve fitting. Emphasizes understanding issues rather than proving theorems or coming up with numerical recipes.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2341 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 3533. Combinatorial Mathematics. (4 Hours)
Introduces techniques of mathematical proofs including mathematical induction. Explores various techniques for counting such as permutation and combinations, inclusion-exclusion principle, recurrence relations, generating functions, Polya enumeration, and the mathematical formulations necessary for these techniques including elementary group theory and equivalence relations.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1342 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1242 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1252 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 3535. Numerical Methods with Applications to Differential Equations. (4 Hours)
Covers numerical methods to solve ordinary differential equations that are otherwise not solvable using exact methods and that are useful in a variety of applications drawn from classical areas of science and engineering. Studies examples classified as initial and boundary value problems from fluid mechanics and heat transfer. The topics are of fundamental importance in many branches of applied mathematics, physical sciences, and engineering. Possible topics also include the finite element method, which is very useful in structural analysis involving complex geometry.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2341 with a minimum grade of C-
MATH 3543. Dynamics, Chaos, and Fractals. (4 Hours)
Introduces one-dimensional discrete real and complex dynamics, chaotic dynamics, and fractals, with an emphasis on computational and graphical exploration. Studies orbits and periodic iteration behavior of real and complex-valued function, attracting cycles, itineraries, symbolic dynamics, chaos, classical fractal constructions, Minkowski dimension, Julia sets, and the Mandelbrot set.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1342 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 3545. Introduction to Graph Theory. (4 Hours)
Offers a mathematical introduction to networks and graphs, which find applications in social and natural sciences. Introduces paths, cycles, trees, bipartite graphs, matchings, colorings, connectivity, and network flows. Discusses special cases of planar, Eulerian, and Hamiltonian graphs; Tait’s theorem; and possible advanced topics. Students who do not meet course prerequisites may seek permission of instructor.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1365 with a minimum grade of C- or MATH 2310 with a minimum grade of C- or MATH 3533 with a minimum grade of C- or CS 1800 with a minimum grade of C- or CS 3800 with a minimum grade of C-
MATH 3560. Geometry. (4 Hours)
Studies classical geometry and symmetry groups of geometric figures, with an emphasis on Euclidean geometry. Teaches how to formulate mathematical propositions precisely and how to construct and understand mathematical proofs. Provides a line between classical and modern geometry with the aim of preparing students for further study in group theory and differential geometry.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2341 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MATH 4020. Research Capstone. (4 Hours)
Offers students the experience of engaging in mathematical research that builds upon the math courses that they have taken and, possibly, their co-op assignments. Requires students to complete a research project of their own choosing. Focus is on the project and on the students presenting their work. Also requires students to write a reflection paper. Intended for juniors or seniors with experience or interest in mathematics research. Students who do not meet course prerequisites may seek permission of instructor.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 3150 with a minimum grade of D- ; MATH 3175 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
MATH 4025. Applied Mathematics Capstone. (4 Hours)
Emphasizes the use of a variety of methods—such as optimization, differential equations, probability, and statistics—to study problems that arise in epidemiology, finance, and other real-world settings. Course work includes assigned exercises, a long-term modeling project on a topic of the student’s choosing, and a reflection paper.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 3081 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
MATH 4525. Applied Analysis. (4 Hours)
Demonstrates the applications of mathematics to interesting physical and biological problems. Methods are chosen from ordinary and partial differential equations, calculus of variations, Laplace transform, perturbation theory, special functions, dimensional analysis, asymptotic analysis, and other techniques of applied mathematics.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2321 with a minimum grade of D- ; MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of D- ; (MATH 2341 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2351 with a minimum grade of D- )
MATH 4527. Number Theory 2. (4 Hours)
Continues MATH 3527. Topics include Diophantine approximation, the Gaussian integers, irrational numbers and transcendental numbers, nonlinear polynomial congruences, systems of linear congruences, mobius inversion, elliptic curves, modular curves, modular forms, and L-functions.
Prerequisite(s): (MATH 3527 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 4575 with a minimum grade of D- ); MATH 3175 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4541. Advanced Calculus. (4 Hours)
Offers a deeper and more generalized look at the ideas and objects of study of calculus. Topics include the generalized calculus of n-space, the inverse and implicit function theorems, differential forms and general Stokes-type theorems, geometry of curves and surfaces, and special functions.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2321 with a minimum grade of D- ; MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4545. Fourier Series and PDEs. (4 Hours)
Provides a first course in Fourier series, Sturm-Liouville boundary value problems, and their application to solving the fundamental partial differential equations of mathematical physics: the heat equation, the wave equation, and Laplace’s equation. Green’s functions are also introduced as a means of obtaining closed-form solutions.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2351 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2341 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4555. Complex Variables. (4 Hours)
Provides an introduction to the analysis of functions of a complex variable. Starting with the algebra and geometry of complex numbers, basic derivative and contour integral properties are developed for elementary algebraic and transcendental functions as well as for other analytic functions and functions with isolated singularities. Power and Laurent series representations are given. Classical integral theorems, residue theory, and conformal mapping properties are studied. Applications of harmonic functions are presented as time permits.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2321 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4565. Topology. (4 Hours)
Introduces the student to fundamental notions of topology. Introduces basic set theory, then covers the foundations of general topology (axioms for a topological space, continuous functions, homeomorphisms, metric spaces, the subspace, product and quotient topologies, connectedness, compactness, and the Hausdorff condition). Also introduces algebraic and geometric topology (homotopy, covering spaces, fundamental groups, graphs, surfaces, and manifolds) and applications. Other topics are covered if time permits.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 3150 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4570. Matrix Methods in Data Analysis and Machine Learning. (4 Hours)
Introduces concepts and methods of linear algebra for understanding and creating machine learning and deep learning algorithms. Topics include various matrix factorizations, symmetric positive definite matrices, inner product spaces, matrix calculus, applications to probability and statistics, and optimization in high-dimensional spaces. Explores the mathematics behind data analysis, machine learning, and deep learning, including gradient descents, Newton's methods, principal components analysis, linear regression and linear methods in classification, neural networks, and convolutional neural networks. Offers students opportunities to learn and practice Python skills with labs and the final project.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of C- or MATH 2341 with a minimum grade of C-
MATH 4571. Advanced Linear Algebra. (4 Hours)
Provides a more detailed study of linear transformations and matrices: LU factorization, QR factorization, Spectral theorem and singular value decomposition, Jordan form, positive definite matrices, quadratic forms, partitioned matrices, and norms and numerical issues. Topics and emphasis change from year to year.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4575. Introduction to Cryptography. (4 Hours)
Presents the mathematical foundations of cryptology, beginning with the study of divisibility of integers, the Euclidian Algorithm, and an analysis of the Extended Euclidian Algorithm. Includes a short study of groups, semigroups, residue class rings, fields, Fermat’s Little Theorem, Chinese Remainder Theorem, polynomials over fields, and the multiplicative group of residues modulo a prime number. Introduces fundamental notions used to describe encryption schemes together with examples, which include affine linear ciphers and cryptanalysis and continues with probability and perfect secrecy. Presents the Data Encryption Standard (DES) and culminates in the study of the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), the standard encryption scheme in the United States since 2001.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 3175 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 3527 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4576. Rings and Fields. (4 Hours)
Introduces commutative rings, ideals, integral domains, fields, and the theory of extension fields. Topics include Gaussian integers, Galois groups, and the fundamental theorem of Galois theory. Applications include the impossibility of angle-trisection and the general insolvability of fifth- and higher-degree polynomials. Other topics are covered as time permits.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 3175 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4577. Commutative Algebra. (4 Hours)
Introduces the basics of commutative algebra. Emphasizes rigorously building the mathematical background needed for studying this subject in more depth. Seeks to prepare students for more advanced classes in algebraic geometry, robotics, invariant theory of finite groups, and cryptography. Covers geometry, algebra, and algorithms; Grobner bases; elimination theory; the algebra-geometry dictionary; robotics and automatic geometric theorem proving.
Prerequisite(s): (MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of C+ ; MATH 1365 with a minimum grade of C+ ) or MATH 3175 with a minimum grade of C+ or MATH 4576 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C+
MATH 4581. Statistics and Stochastic Processes. (4 Hours)
Continues topics introduced in MATH 3081. The first part of the course covers classical procedures of statistics including the t-test, linear regression, and the chi-square test. The second part provides an introduction to stochastic processes with emphasis on Markov chains, random walks, and Brownian motion, with applications to modeling and finance.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 3081 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4606. Mathematical and Computational Methods for Physics. (4 Hours)
Covers advanced mathematical methods topics that are commonly used in the physical sciences, such as complex calculus, Fourier transforms, special functions, and the principles of variational calculus. Applies these methods to computational simulation and modeling exercises. Introduces basic computational techniques and numerical analysis, such as Newton’s method, Monte Carlo integration, gradient descent, and least squares regression. Uses a simple programming language, such as MATLAB, for the exercises.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D- ; MATH 2321 with a minimum grade of D- ; (MATH 2341 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2351 with a minimum grade of D- )
MATH 4681. Probability and Risks. (4 Hours)
Reviews main probability and statistics concepts from the point of view of decision risks in actuarial and biomedical contexts, including applications of normal approximation for evaluating statistical risks. Also examines new topics, such as distribution of extreme values and nonparametric statistics with examples. May be especially useful for students preparing for the first actuarial exam on probability and statistics.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 3081 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4682. Theory of Interest and Basics of Life Insurance 1. (4 Hours)
Reviews basic financial instruments in the presence of interest rates, including the measurement of interest and problems in interest (equations of value, basic and more general annuities, yield rates, amortization schedules, bonds and other securities). Examines numerous practical applications. Also introduces problems of life insurance with examples. May be especially useful for students preparing for the second actuarial exam on theory of interest.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 3081 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4683. Financial Derivatives. (4 Hours)
Presents the mathematical basis of actuarial models and their application to insurance and other financial risks. Includes but is not limited to financial derivatives such as options and futures. Techniques and applications may be useful for students preparing for actuarial Exam 3F (Society of Actuaries Exam MFE).
Prerequisite(s): MATH 4581 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4684. Theory of Interest and Basics of Life Insurance 2. (4 Hours)
Reviews actuarial models for life insurance, including survival models, life tables, life insurance, life annuities, premium and policy values, multiple state models, joint-life and last survivor models, pensions, and emerging costs for life insurance. Designed to be especially useful for students preparing for the fourth actuarial exam, LTAM (Long-Term Actuarial Mathematics), of the Society of Actuaries.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 4682 with a minimum grade of C-
MATH 4970. Junior/Senior Honors Project 1. (4 Hours)
Focuses on in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Combined with Junior/Senior Project 2 or college-defined equivalent for 8-credit honors project. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 3081 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4971. Junior/Senior Honors Project 2. (4 Hours)
Focuses on second semester of in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 4970 with a minimum grade of D-
MATH 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MATH 4991. Research. (4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct research under faculty supervision.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
MATH 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated without limit.
MATH 4994. Internship. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity for internship work. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
MATH 4996. Experiential Education Directed Study. (4 Hours)
Draws upon the student’s approved experiential activity and integrates it with study in the academic major. Restricted to mathematics majors who are using it to fulfill their experiential education requirement; for these students it may count as a mathematics elective, subject to approval by instructor and adviser. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
MATH 5001. Accelerated Linear Algebra. (2 Hours)
Offers an intensive exploration of linear algebra. Covers linear algebra concepts at an accelerated pace including vector spaces, linear transformations, matrix operations, eigenvalues and eigenspaces, inner product spaces, orthogonal basis, least squares, positive semidefinite matrices, and singular value decompositions. Includes applications to statistics, dynamical systems, and machine learning.
MATH 5002. Accelerated Multivariable Calculus. (2 Hours)
Offers an intensive exploration of multivariable calculus. Covers vector calculus concepts at an accelerated pace including partial derivatives, level sets, gradient vectors, optimizations, Lagrange multipliers, multiple integrals, vector fields, line integrals, and surface integrals. Includes applications to statistics, engineering, and machine learning.
MATH 5003. Accelerated Probability and Statistics. (2 Hours)
Offers an intensive exploration of probability and statistics including both theoretical concepts and practical applications. Covers discrete and continuous random variables, probability distributions, expectation and variance, central limit theorem, estimation theory, maximum likelihood estimation, and hypothesis testing. Includes applications to machine learning and solving real-world problems.
MATH 5010. Foundations of Statistical Theory and Probability. (4 Hours)
Presents a comprehensive foundational overview of the probability theory and mathematical statistics critical to various methodologies needed to perform and interpret a statistical analysis. Explores probability distributions and the theoretical justifications around common statistical measures such as means, variances, and expected values. Introduces likelihood and Bayesian theory as tools to derive parameter estimates and begin to make inferences. Culminates with formal procedures for statistical inference including hypothesis testing, the construction of confidence intervals and credible intervals, and calculations of power and sample size. All topics are grounded in theory, with appropriate practice using a programming language and real-world datasets to communicate and visualize data and results.
MATH 5101. Analysis 1: Functions of One Variable. (4 Hours)
Offers a rigorous, proof-based introduction to mathematical analysis and its applications. Topics include metric spaces, convergence, compactness, and connectedness; continuous and uniformly continuous functions; derivatives, the mean value theorem, and Taylor series; Riemann integration and the fundamental theorem of calculus; interchanging limit operations; sequences of functions and uniform convergence; Arzelà-Ascoli and Stone-Weierstrass theorems; inverse and implicit function theorems; successive approximations and existence/uniqueness for ordinary differential equations; linear operators on finite-dimensional vector spaces and applications to systems of ordinary differential equations. Provides a series of computer projects that further develop the connections between theory and applications. Requires permission of instructor and head advisor for undergraduate students.
MATH 5102. Analysis 2: Functions of Several Variables. (4 Hours)
Continues MATH 5101. Studies basics of analysis in several variables. Topics include derivative and partial derivatives; the contraction principle; the inverse function and implicit function theorems; derivatives of higher order; Taylor formula in several variables; differentiation of integrals depending on parameters; integration of functions of several variables; change of variables in integrals; differential forms and their integration over simplexes and chains; external multiplication of forms; differential of forms; Stokes’ formula; set functions; Lebesgue measure; measure spaces; measurable functions; integration; comparison with the Riemann integral; L2 as a Hilbert space; and Parseval theorem and Riesz-Fischer theorem. Requires permission of instructor and head advisor for undergraduate students.
MATH 5110. Applied Linear Algebra and Matrix Analysis. (4 Hours)
Offers a robust introduction to the basic results of linear algebra on real and complex vector spaces with applications to differential equations and Markov chains. Introduces theoretical results along the way, along with matrix analysis, eigenvalue analysis, and spectral decomposition. Includes a significant computational component, focused on applications of linear algebra to mathematical modeling.
MATH 5111. Algebra 1. (4 Hours)
Discusses fundamentals of the theory of groups and some applications in Galois theory. Topics may include quotient groups and isomorphism theorems; group actions and Sylow theory; simplicity and solvability; permutations and the simplicity of the higher alternating groups; fields and polynomial rings; splitting fields; the Galois correspondence; computations of Galois groups; and applications of Galois theory, including non-solvability of polynomials by radicals.
MATH 5112. Algebra 2. (4 Hours)
Provides a comprehensive introduction to commutative algebra: rings and modules. Topics in commutative ring theory include ideals, prime and maximal ideals, ring homomorphisms, Euclidean domains, principal ideal domains, unique factorization domains, fields of quotients, polynomial rings, irreducibility criteria, and the Chinese Remainder Theorem. Topics in module theory include module homomorphisms, the structure theorem for modules over a PID and applications, and the Jordan and rational canonical forms.
MATH 5121. Topology 1. (4 Hours)
Provides an introduction to topology, starting with the basics of point set topology (topological space, continuous maps, homeomorphisms, compactness and connectedness, and identification spaces). Moves on to the basic notions of algebraic and combinatorial topology, such as homotopy equivalences, fundamental group, Seifert-VanKampen theorem, simplicial complexes, classification of surfaces, and covering space theory. Ends with a brief introduction to simplicial homology and knot theory. Requires permission of instructor and head advisor for undergraduate students.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 5111 with a minimum grade of C-
MATH 5122. Geometry 1. (4 Hours)
Covers differentiable manifolds, such as tangent bundles, tensor bundles, vector fields, Frobenius integrability theorem, differential forms, Stokes’ theorem, and de Rham cohomology; and curves and surfaces, such as elementary theory of curves and surfaces in R3, fundamental theorem of surfaces in R3, surfaces with constant Gauss or mean curvature, and Gauss-Bonnet theorem for surfaces. Requires permission of instructor and head advisor for undergraduate students.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 5101 with a minimum grade of C- ; MATH 5111 with a minimum grade of C-
MATH 5131. Introduction to Mathematical Methods and Modeling. (4 Hours)
Presents mathematical methods emphasizing applications. Uses ordinary and partial differential equations to model the evolution of real-world processes. Topics chosen illustrate the power and versatility of mathematical methods in a variety of applied fields and include population dynamics, drug assimilation, epidemics, spread of pollutants in environmental systems, competing and cooperating species, and heat conduction. Requires students to complete a math-modeling project. Requires undergraduate-level course work in ordinary and partial differential equations.
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
MATH 5352. Quantum Computation and Information. (4 Hours)
Introduces the foundations of quantum computation and information, including finite dimensional quantum mechanics, gates and circuits, quantum algorithms, quantum noise, and error-correcting codes. Assumes a working knowledge of linear algebra and matrix analysis, but no prior experience with quantum theory or algorithms is required.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-ba/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
BA Language Requirements
All BA students are required to complete the BA degree language requirements, for a total of 12 semester hours of language study or demonstrated equivalent proficiency, as described in Additional Requirements for BA students. Successful demonstration of proficiency does not reduce total minimum semester hours of study required to earn the BA degree.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Mathematics Major Grade Requirement
A grade of C or higher is required in all mathematics courses numbered 3000 and below and in MATH 4000.
Mathematics Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Problem Solving | ||
MATH 1365 | Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning | 4 |
History of Mathematics | ||
MATH 2201 | History of Mathematics | 4 |
Calculus | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2321 | Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Intermediate and Advanced Mathematics | ||
MATH 2331 | Linear Algebra | 4 |
MATH 3150 | Real Analysis | 4 |
or MATH 4565 | Topology | |
MATH 3175 | Group Theory | 4 |
MATH 3560 | Geometry | 4 |
or MATH 3527 | Number Theory 1 | |
Co-op Reflections | ||
MATH 3000 | Co-op and Experiential Learning Reflection Seminar 1 | 1 |
Mathematics Elective | ||
Complete one course in the following range: | 4 | |
MATH 3001 to MATH 4899 | ||
Required Physics | ||
Physics 1 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 2 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics 2 and Lab for PHYS 1165 | ||
Physics for Engineering 2 and Lab for PHYS 1155 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155 | ||
Capstone | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Applied Mathematics Capstone | ||
Introduction to Mathematical Methods and Modeling | ||
Research Capstone |
Mathematics Major Credit Requirement
Complete 54 semester hours in the major.
Upper-Division Electives
Note: Courses used as upper-division electives do not count toward the major or NUpath.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete three general electives numbered 3000 or above. | 12 |
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Plans of Study
Four Years
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 1341 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Vacation | |
MATH 1365 | 4 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
Elective | 4 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 1161 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1162 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1000 | 1 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2321 | 4 | MATH 2201 | 4 | Math Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
MATH 2331 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign language core course | 4 | Foreign language core course | 4 | ||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3315 | 4 | MATH elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
MATH 3175 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign language core course | 4 | ||||||
MATH 3560 or MATH 3527 | 4 | ||||||
MATH 3000 | 1 | ||||||
0 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | MATH 3150 | 4 | Upper-division elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
Elective | 4 | Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Total Hours: 133 |
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 1161 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
PHYS 1162 | 1 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1365 | 4 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1000 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2321 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Vacation | |
MATH 2331 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Foreign language core course | 4 | ||||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2201 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | MATH elective | 4 |
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Foreign language core course | 4 | ||||||
MATH 3000 | 1 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 3315 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Elective | 4 |
MATH 3560 or 3527 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign language core course | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
MATH 3150 | 4 | MATH 3175 | 4 | ||||
MATH elective | 4 | MATH 4025 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||
Upper-division elective | 4 | Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 133 |
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 1341 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
MATH 1365 | 4 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 1161 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1162 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1000 | 1 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2321 | 4 | MATH 2201 | 4 | Vacation | Co-op | 0 | |
MATH 2331 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign language core course | 4 | Foreign language core course | 4 | ||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | MATH 3560 or 3527 | 4 | MATH elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
ENGW 3315 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign language core course | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
MATH 3000 | 1 | ||||||
0 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | MATH 3150 | 4 | Upper-division elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
Elective | 4 | Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | MATH 3175 | 4 | ||||
MATH elective | 4 | ||||||
MATH 4025 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 133 |
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 1161 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
PHYS 1162 | 1 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1365 | 4 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1000 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2321 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Vacation | |
MATH 2331 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Foreign language core course | 4 | ||||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2201 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | MATH elective | 4 |
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Foreign language core course | 4 | ||||||
MATH 3000 | 1 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 3315 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Elective | 4 |
MATH 3560 or 3527 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Foreign language core course | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
MATH 3150 | 4 | MATH 3175 | 4 | ||||
MATH elective | 4 | MATH 4025 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||
Upper-division elective | 4 | Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 133 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Mathematics Major Grade Requirement
A grade of C or higher is required in all mathematics courses numbered 3000 and below and in MATH 4000.
Mathematics Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Problem Solving | ||
MATH 1365 | Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning | 4 |
Calculus | ||
A grade of C or higher is required: | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2321 | Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Intermediate and Advanced Mathematics | ||
MATH 2331 | Linear Algebra | 4 |
MATH 2341 | Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering | 4 |
MATH 3081 | Probability and Statistics | 4 |
MATH 3150 | Real Analysis | 4 |
MATH 3175 | Group Theory | 4 |
Co-op Reflections | ||
MATH 3000 | Co-op and Experiential Learning Reflection Seminar 1 | 1 |
Mathematics Electives | ||
Complete four courses in the following range: | 16 | |
MATH 3101 to MATH 4899 | ||
Required Physics | ||
Physics 1 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 2 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics 2 and Lab for PHYS 1165 | ||
Physics for Engineering 2 and Lab for PHYS 1155 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155 | ||
Capstone | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Applied Mathematics Capstone | ||
Introduction to Mathematical Methods and Modeling | ||
Research Capstone |
Mathematics Major Credit Requirement
Complete 66 semester hours in the major.
Upper-Division Electives
Note: Courses used as upper-division electives do not count toward the major or NUpath.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete three general electives numbered 3000 or above. | 12 |
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 1341 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | Vacation | 0 | Vacation | 0 |
MATH 1365 | 4 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 1161 | 4 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1162 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
MATH 1000 | 1 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2321 | 4 | MATH 2341 | 4 | Vacation | 0 | Co-op | 0 |
MATH 2331 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | MATH elective | 4 | MATH elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
ENGW 3315 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
MATH 3081 | 4 | ||||||
Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||||
MATH 3000 | 1 | ||||||
0 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | MATH 3150 | 4 | MATH elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
MATH elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | MATH 3175 | 4 | ||||
MATH elective | 4 | ||||||
MATH 4025 | 4 | ||||||
Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 133 |
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 1161 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | Vacation | 0 | Vacation | 0 |
PHYS 1162 | 1 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1365 | 4 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1000 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2321 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Vacation | 0 |
MATH 2331 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2341 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | MATH elective | 4 |
MATH 3175 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
MATH 3000 | 1 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 3315 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | MATH elective | 4 |
MATH 3081 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
MATH 3150 | 4 | ||||||
Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
MATH elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
MATH elective | 4 | MATH 4025 | 4 | ||||
Upper-division elective | 4 | Upper-division elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | MATH elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 133 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-business-administration-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Mathematics Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1365 | Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning | 4 |
MATH 3081 | Probability and Statistics | 4 |
Calculus and Linear Algebra (Required) and Differential Equations (Recommended) | ||
Complete either Option 1 or Option 2 below: | 8 | |
Option 1 (Recommended) | ||
Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | ||
Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering | ||
Option 2 | ||
Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | ||
Linear Algebra | ||
Mathematics Electives | ||
Complete three courses in the range MATH 3001 to MATH 5999. The following courses are recommended: | 12 | |
Probability and Risks | ||
Theory of Interest and Basics of Life Insurance 1 | ||
Statistics and Stochastic Processes |
Business Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Accounting | ||
ACCT 1201 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
ACCT 2301 | Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors | 4 |
Finance | ||
FINA 2201 | Financial Management | 4 |
Marketing | ||
MKTG 2201 | Introduction to Marketing | 4 |
Organizational Behavior | ||
ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
International Business/Social Responsibility | ||
INTB 1203 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | 4 |
Strategy in Action | ||
STRT 4501 | Strategy in Action | 4 |
Integrative Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
MATH 4581 | Statistics and Stochastic Processes | 4 |
Business Concentration
Complete one of the following business concentrations. One concentration is required. A second concentration is optional.
- Accounting
- Accounting and Advisory Services
- Brand Management
- Business Analytics
- Corporate Innovation
- Entrepreneurial Startups
- Family Business
- Finance
- Fintech
- Healthcare Management and Consulting
- International Business (only available as a second concentration)
- Management
- Management Information Systems
- Marketing
- Marketing Analytics
- Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship
- Supply Chain Management
Supplemental Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Economics | ||
ECON 1115 | Principles of Macroeconomics | 4 |
ECON 1116 | Principles of Microeconomics | 4 |
Co-op Preparation | ||
BUSN 1103 | Professional Development for Business Co-op | 1 |
or EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op |
Business Cooperative Education
Complete one cooperative education experience.
Mathematics GPA Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA required in all mathematics courses
Business GPA Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA required in business courses
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, Two Co-ops
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | MKTG 2201 | 4 | NU Path | 4 |
ECON 1115 | 4 | MATH 1365 | 4 | Open Elective | 4 | Open Elective | 4 |
MATH 1341 | 4 | ECON 1116 | 4 | ||||
ACCT 1201 | 4 | ACCT 2301 | 4 | ||||
BUSN 1102 or MATH 1000 | 1 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
FINA 2201 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | ORGB 3201 | 4 | ||
INTB 1203 | 4 | NU Path | 4 | ||||
MATH 3081 | 4 | ||||||
MATH 2321 | 4 | ||||||
BUSN 1103 or EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Concentration Course 1 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | Concentration Course 2 | 4 | ||
MATH 2341 or 2331 | 4 | Open Elective | 4 | ||||
Math Elective (3001-5999) | 4 | ||||||
ENGW 3304 or 3307 | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Concentration Course 3 | 4 | NU Path | 4 | ||||
Math Elective (3001-5999) | 4 | Open Elective | 4 | ||||
MATH 4581 | 4 | Concentration Course 4 | 4 | ||||
STRT 4501 | 4 | Math Elective (3001-5999) | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Required Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Biology majors may substitute the following two courses: | ||
Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 1 | ||
Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 2 |
Intermediate-Level Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | ||
Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering | ||
Linear Algebra |
Mathematics Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two courses in the following range: | 8 | |
MATH 3001 to MATH 4699 1 |
- 1
MATH 4000 is excluded.
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-philosophy-bs/
The mathematics and philosophy combined major integrates the tools, concepts, and skills of mathematics and philosophy. This major explores the philosophical foundations of mathematics, including questions about the nature of mathematical knowledge and the status of the axioms of mathematics and probability theory, while also applying key tools from mathematics to philosophical problems such as those that arise in evolutionary game theory, philosophy of economics, and philosophy of science.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Mathematics Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1365 | Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning | 4 |
MATH 2321 | Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2331 | Linear Algebra | 4 |
MATH 2341 | Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering | 4 |
MATH 3081 | Probability and Statistics | 4 |
Mathematics Electives | ||
Complete two courses in the following range: MATH 3001 to MATH 4999 | 8 |
Philosophy Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
PHIL 1115 | Introduction to Logic | 4 |
PHIL 2325 | Ancient Philosophy and Political Thought | 4 |
PHIL 2330 | Modern Philosophy | 4 |
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Ethics and Evolutionary Games | ||
Information and Uncertainty | ||
Philosophy Advanced Electives | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Scientific Approaches to Philosophy | ||
Theory of Knowledge | ||
Philosophy of Science | ||
Philosophy of Mind | ||
Philosophy of Economics | ||
Philosophy of Biology | ||
Open Electives | ||
Complete three additional PHIL courses. | 12 |
Integrative Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
PHIL 4515 | Advanced Deductive Logic | 4 |
Capstone
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following not used to satisfy another requirement: | 4 | |
Research Capstone | ||
Applied Mathematics Capstone | ||
Introduction to Mathematical Methods and Modeling | ||
Theory of Knowledge | ||
Philosophy of Science | ||
Philosophy of Mind | ||
Philosophy of Economics | ||
Philosophy of Biology | ||
Topics in Philosophy Seminar |
Mathematics and Philosophy Combined Major Credit Requirement
Students must maintain a minimum GPA of 2.000 in their mathematics and philosophy courses.
68 semester hours required
Program Requirement
128 semester hours required
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/ Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 1365 | 4 | MATH 1341 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
PHIL 1115 | 4 | PHIL 2325 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
PHIL elective | 4 | PHIL elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 1342 | 4 | MATH 2331 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | |
MATH 2321 | 4 | PHIL advanced elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
PHIL 2330 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | MATH 2341 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | ||
MATH 3081 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PHIL 2001 or 3050 | 4 | ||||||
Course in the following range: MATH 3001 to Math 4999 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | PHIL 4515 | 4 | |||||
Capstone in PHIL or MATH | 4 | ||||||
Course in the following range: MATH 3001 to MATH 4999 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 128 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-physics-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Mathematics Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Calculus | ||
A grade of C or higher is required: | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2321 | Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Intermediate and Advanced Math | ||
MATH 2331 | Linear Algebra | 4 |
MATH 2341 | Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering | 4 |
MATH 3081 | Probability and Statistics | 4 |
MATH 3175 | Group Theory | 4 |
Co-op Reflections | ||
MATH 3000 | Co-op and Experiential Learning Reflection Seminar 1 | 1 |
Mathematics Elective | ||
Complete two courses in the following range: | 8 | |
MATH 3101 to MATH 4899 | ||
Quantum Mechanics |
Physics Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Physics 1 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 | ||
Physics 2 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics for Engineering 2 and Lab for PHYS 1155 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155 | ||
Physics 2 and Lab for PHYS 1165 | ||
Intermediate Physics | ||
PHYS 2303 | Modern Physics | 4 |
PHYS 2371 and PHYS 2372 | Electronics and Lab for PHYS 2371 | 4 |
Advanced Physics | ||
PHYS 3600 | Advanced Physics Laboratory | 4 |
PHYS 3602 | Electricity and Magnetism 1 | 4 |
PHYS 4305 | Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics | 4 |
Elective Courses | ||
Complete two courses in the following range: | 8 | |
PHYS 3000 to PHYS 7999 |
Additional Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Capstone Requirement | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Research Capstone | ||
Applied Mathematics Capstone | ||
Introduction to Mathematical Methods and Modeling |
Integrative Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
MATH 4545 | Fourier Series and PDEs | 4 |
or MATH 4525 | Applied Analysis | |
PHYS 3601 | Classical Dynamics | 4 |
Combined Major Credit Requirement
Complete 87 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Notes on Physics Courses in Sample Plan of Study
Some required physics courses are offered in both fall and spring semesters, while other required courses are offered less frequently. Therefore, the suggested plan of study will vary from student to student, depending on the year of entry for that student.
Please contact your academic advisor for additional information and plans of study.
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 1341 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | Vacation | 0 | Vacation | 0 |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 1161 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1162 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
MATH 1000 | 1 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2321 | 4 | MATH 2341 | 4 | Vacation | 0 | Co-op | 0 |
Elective | 4 | MATH 2331 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 2303 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS 2371 | 3 | EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 2372 | 1 | PHYS 3601 | 4 | ||||
16 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | PHYS 3602 | 4 | PHYS 3600 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHYS 4305 | 4 | MATH 3081 | 4 | ||||
MATH 3000 | 1 | ||||||
MATH elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | MATH 3175 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
MATH elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS undergraduate elective | 4 | ||||||
ENGW 3315 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | PHYS undergraduate elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS undergraduate elective | 4 | ||||||
MATH 4025 | 4 | ||||||
MATH 4545 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 133 |
Physics Course Offering Schedule
PHYS 2303 offered every fall, spring, and summer 2
PHYS 2371/PHYS 2372 offered every fall
PHYS 3600 offered every summer 1 and summer 2
PHYS 3601 offered every fall and spring
PHYS 3602 offered every fall and spring
PHYS 3603 offered fall, spring all years, and summer 1 (odd years)
PHYS 4115 offered every fall and spring
PHYS 4305 offered fall, spring all years, and summer 2 (even years)
PHYS 4621 offered fall (even years) and spring (odd years)
PHYS 4623 offered fall (even years) and summer 1 (even years)
PHYS 4651 offered fall (odd years) and spring (odd years)
PHYS 4652 offered every spring
PHYS 5318 offered every spring
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-political-science-bs/
The Mathematics and Political Science combined major provides training to prepare students to use quantitative training and methods to understand political trends and events.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Mathematics Requirements
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
MATH 1365 | Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning | 4 |
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2321 | Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2341 | Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2331 | Linear Algebra | 4 |
MATH 3081 | Probability and Statistics | 4 |
| 8 |
| |
Political Science Requirements
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
POLS 1150 | American Government | 4 |
POLS 1155 | Comparative Politics | 4 |
POLS 1160 | International Relations | 4 |
POLS 2399 | Research Methods in Political Science | 4 |
POLS 2400 | Quantitative Techniques | 4 |
| 4 |
| Ancient Philosophy and Political Thought | |
| Modern Political Thought | |
| American Political Thought | |
| Contemporary Political Thought | |
| 12 |
Political Science Concentrations (Optional)
If you are working toward one of the following concentrations, declare it with your advisor so that it may be added to your record. Requirements for the concentrations are listed below.
Integrative Requirement
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
POLS 2390 | Science, Technology, and Public Policy | 4 |
Mathematics and Political Science Combined-Major Credit Requirement
Complete 68 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Optional Political Science Concentrations
Concentration in American Political Institutions
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 16 |
| State and Local Politics | |
| The U.S. Congress | |
| Judicial Process and Behavior | |
| Public Policy and Administration | |
| Public Opinion, Voting, and Elections | |
| Campaign Strategy | |
Concentration in Campaigns and Elections
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
POLS 3160 | Campaign Strategy | 4 |
POLS 3302 | Judicial Process and Behavior | 4 |
| 8 |
| Urban Policies and Politics | |
| State and Local Politics | |
POLS 3162 | | |
| Public Opinion, Voting, and Elections | |
| Politics and Mass Media | |
Concentration in Comparative Politics
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 8 |
| The Holocaust and Comparative Genocide | |
| Democratic Erosion | |
| Immigration Politics | |
| Religion and Politics | |
| Nationalism | |
| Revolution, Civil War, and Insurrection | |
| Politics of Developing Nations | |
| 4 |
| Politics and Governance of Europe and the European Union | |
| Government and Politics in the Middle East | |
| 4 |
| Model Arab League | |
| Model NATO | |
| Dialogue of Civilizations: Government and Politics Abroad | |
Concentration in Identity, Culture, and Politics
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
POLS 3418 | Nationalism | 4 |
| 12 |
| Immigration Politics | |
| Music and Politics in America and Abroad | |
| Religion and Politics | |
| Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Issues in Public Policy | |
| Law and Society | |
Concentration in International Relations and Diplomacy
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 4 |
| Model United Nations | |
| Model Arab League | |
| Dialogue of Civilizations: International Politics Abroad | |
| 12 |
| International Political Economy | |
| International Law | |
| Politics and Governance of Europe and the European Union | |
| International Security | |
Concentration in Law and Legal Studies
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 16 |
| American Political Thought | |
| The U.S. Congress | |
| Judicial Process and Behavior | |
| Race, Inequality, and the Law | |
| Law and Society | |
| International Law | |
| Global Governance | |
| U.S. Constitutional Law | |
| U.S. Civil Liberties | |
Concentration in Public Policy
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
POLS 3307 | Public Policy and Administration | 4 |
| 12 |
| Urban Policies and Politics | |
| State and Local Politics | |
| Science, Technology, and Public Policy | |
| Environmental Politics and Policy | |
| U.S. Foreign Policy | |
Concentration in Security Studies
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 16 |
| U.S. National Security Policy | |
| Terrorism and Counterterrorism | |
| U.S. Foreign Policy | |
| Revolution, Civil War, and Insurrection | |
| Politics of Developing Nations | |
| International Security | |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-psychology-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Mathematics Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Problem Solving | ||
MATH 1365 | Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning | 4 |
Calculus | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2321 | Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Intermediate and Advanced Mathematics | ||
MATH 2341 | Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2331 | Linear Algebra | 4 |
MATH 3081 | Probability and Statistics | 4 |
Math Electives | ||
Complete two courses in the following range that are not required in the requirements above: | 8 | |
MATH 3001 to MATH 5999 |
Psychology Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory Course | ||
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Statistics | ||
Complete the following course. Students who receive transfer credit for the Advanced Placement Statistics exam may complete the 1 SH PSYC 2315 course (requires department permission). | 4-5 | |
Statistics in Psychological Research | ||
Area A (Personality/Social Basis of Behavior) | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Personality | ||
Social Psychology | ||
Developmental Psychology | ||
Clinical Psychology and Mental Health | ||
Area B (Biological/Cognitive Basis of Behavior) | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Learning and Motivation | ||
Sensation and Perception | ||
Biological Psychology | ||
Psychology of Language | ||
Cognition | ||
Psychology Laboratory | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Laboratory in Research Design | ||
Laboratory in Learning and Motivation | ||
Laboratory in Biological Psychology | ||
Laboratory in Psycholinguistics | ||
Laboratory in Cognition | ||
Laboratory in Social Psychology | ||
Laboratory in Personality | ||
Laboratory in Sensation and Perception | ||
Laboratory in Affective Science | ||
Laboratory in Life-Span Emotional Development | ||
Laboratory in Developmental Psychology | ||
Psychology Capstone Requirement | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Seminar in Biological Psychology | ||
Seminar in Psycholinguistics | ||
Seminar in Cognition | ||
Seminar in Personality | ||
Seminar in Social Psychology | ||
Seminar in Clinical Psychology | ||
Seminar in Sensation and Perception | ||
Seminar in Cognitive Neuroscience | ||
Seminar in Developmental Psychology | ||
Psychology Elective | ||
Any PSYC course in the 3000 range and up | 4 |
Integrative Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
PSYC 4540 | Quantitative Topics in Psychology and Behavioral Neuroscience | 4 |
Mathematics and Psychology Major Credit Requirement
Complete 76 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study: Four years, Two Co-ops
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PSYC 1000 or MATH 1000 | 1 | PSYC Area A | 4 | PSYC Area B | 4 | Open Elective | 4 |
PSYC 1101 | 4 | Open Elective | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | Open Elective | 4 |
MATH 1365 | 4 | MATH 1341 | 4 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | NUpath IC | 4 | ||||
NUpath EI | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2321 | 4 | MATH 2341 | 4 | PSYC Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PSYC Area A | 4 | PSYC Area B | 4 | Open Elective | 4 | ||
PSYC 2320 | 4 | Open Elective | 4 | ||||
NUpath DD | 4 | MATH Elective | 4 | ||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | MATH 2331 | 4 | MATH 3081 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PSYC Lab | 4 | Open Elective | 4 | ||||
Advanced Writing | 4 | ||||||
PSYC 4540 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | PSYC Seminar | 4 | ||||
Math Elective | 4 | ||||||
NUpath ER | 4 | ||||||
Open Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
Sample Plan of Study: Five years, Three Co-ops
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | MATH 1341 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
MATH 1365 | 4 | PSYC Area A | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | NUpath IC | 4 | ||||
MATH 1000 or PSYC 1000 | 1 | Open elective | 4 | ||||
NUpath EI | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 1342 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | Vacation | Co-op | 0 | |
PSYC 2320 | 4 | MATH 2321 | 4 | ||||
PSYC Area B | 4 | PSYC Area A | 4 | ||||
NUpath DD | 4 | MATH elective | 4 | ||||
Open elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | MATH 2331 | 4 | MATH 2341 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PSYC Area B | 4 | Adv writing | 4 | ||||
PSYC elective | 4 | ||||||
Open elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | MATH 3081 | 4 | Open elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PSYC 4540 | 4 | Open elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC lab | 4 | ||||||
NUpath ER | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | PSYC seminar | 4 | ||||
MATH elective | 4 | ||||||
Open elective | 4 | ||||||
Open elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/mathematics/mathematics-sociology-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Mathematics Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Problem Solving | ||
MATH 1365 | Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning | 4 |
Calculus | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2321 | Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
Intermediate and Advanced Mathematics | ||
MATH 2331 | Linear Algebra | 4 |
MATH 2341 | Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering | 4 |
MATH 3081 | Probability and Statistics | 4 |
Math Electives | ||
Complete two courses in the following range that are not required in the requirements above: | 8 | |
MATH 3001 to MATH 5999 |
Sociology Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Sociology Required Courses | ||
ANTH 1101 | Peoples and Cultures | 4 |
ANTH 2305 | Global Markets and Local Culture | 4 |
SOCL 2320 | Statistical Analysis in Sociology | 4 |
SOCL 2321 | Research Methods in Sociology | 4 |
SOCL 3300 | Social Theory | 4 |
Sociology Electives | ||
Complete one course from each course range: | ||
Introductory Elective | 4 | |
SOCL 1101 to SOCL 1999 | ||
Intermediate Elective | 4 | |
SOCL 2000 to SOCL 3999 | ||
Advanced Elective | 4 | |
SOCL 4000 to SOCL 4999 | ||
Capstone Requirement | ||
SOCL 4600 | Senior Seminar | 4 |
Integrative Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Applied Mathematics Capstone | ||
Introduction to Mathematical Methods and Modeling | ||
The Twenty-First-Century Workplace | ||
Environment, Technology, and Society | ||
Technology and Society |
Mathematics and Sociology Combined Major Credit Requirement
Complete 68 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ANTH 1101 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | SOCL 2320 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | SOCL 3300 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1365 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ANTH 2305 | 4 | MATH 2341 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
MATH 2321 | 4 | MATH elective | 4 | ||||
SOCL 2321 | 4 | SOCL elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2331 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | Vacation | |||
MATH elective | 4 | ||||||
SOCL elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 3081 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | Vacation | |||
SOCL elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Elective | 4 | Capstone | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Integrative course | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 128 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/physics/
Bachelor of Science (BS)
- Physics
- Applied Physics
- Biomedical Physics
- Computer Science and Physics
- Data Science and Physics
- Mathematics and Physics
- Physics and Music with Concentration in Music Technology
- Physics and Philosophy
Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering (BSChE)
Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering (BSCmpE)
Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering (BSEE)
Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering (BSME)
Minor
Accelerated Programs
Physics Courses
PHYS 1000. Physics at Northeastern. (1 Hour)
Intended for freshmen in the College of Science. Introduces freshmen to the liberal arts in general; familiarizes them with their major; helps them develop the academic skills necessary to succeed (analytical ability and critical thinking); provides grounding in the culture and values of the University community; and helps them develop interpersonal skills—in short, familiarizes students with all skills needed to become a successful university student.
PHYS 1111. Introduction to Astronomy. (4 Hours)
Introduces modern astronomical ideas. Topics include an introduction to the cosmos, Earth and its relation to the universe, our solar system (planets, moons, asteroids, and comets), the sun and how it works, stars and their classification, and the life and death of stars. Introduces various tools of the astronomer (the nature of light and radiation, telescopes, the types of spectra, and what they tell us).
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1115. Life in the Universe. (4 Hours)
Explores the possibility of life in the universe from the astronomy, geology, biology, and chemistry point of view, emphasizing the recent astronomical discoveries of planets outside the solar system. Invites students to consider how planetary evolution affects life or the potential habitability of exoplanets. Analyzes environmental limits or “extremes” under which life can survive and what life might look like on another world. Guides the student on a quest to identify habitable—or even inhabited—worlds through the data of the most recent discoveries and observations.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1122. Modern Science: A Voyage into Matter, Life, and Mind. (4 Hours)
Offers an intellectual voyage into matter, life, and mind—the three pillars of modern science. It is a mosaic of different themes that offer a concise overview of science’s greatest minds, ideas, questions, discoveries, theories, and methods while placing all of them within their historical contexts. Emphasizes the profound scientific revolutions of the 20th century—quantum mechanics, biogenetics, and artificial intelligence—that unlocked the secrets of the atom, unraveled the molecule of life, and created the electronic computer. Recognizes significant trends across a wide range of subjects, including medicine, biotechnology, computing and communicating, artificial intelligence and artificial life, and robotics. Discusses the synergism of science, technology, and business on future scientific development.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1125. Introduction to Network Science: From the Human Cell to Facebook. (4 Hours)
Introduces network science as a way to understand complex patterns of connections and relationships in increasingly complex social, infrastructure, transportation, information, and biological networks, as well as business and consumer networks. Describes basic conceptual and computational tools to model networks and discusses applications of those tools through a wide range of examples from the World Wide Web to protein and gene networks to massive social networks such as Twitter and Facebook. Discusses both network structures and dynamical phenomena on networks, such as spreading of information, rumors, gossip, and epidemics.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World, NUpath Societies/Institutions
PHYS 1130. Computing, Data, and Science. (4 Hours)
Introduces how to deal with data and computation problems through the use of computer languages commonly used in the sciences. Focuses on manipulating data, but symbolic calculations are also covered. Intended for science majors during the first summer, when such a course can act as a foundation for later work.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PHYS 1132. Energy, Environment, and Society. (4 Hours)
Seeks to provide nonscience students with a practical knowledge of our present use of the Earth’s energy resources and the environmental consequences. Topics include fossil fuels for transportation and electrical power, global warming, nuclear energy, solar energy, wind power, biomass, electric and hybrid vehicles, and air pollution. No previous knowledge of physics is assumed; nevertheless, because of the nature of the subject, a significant part of the course includes simple quantitative reasoning.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World, NUpath Societies/Institutions
PHYS 1141. General Physics. (4 Hours)
Covers mechanics, fluids, and vibrations and waves. Emphasizes the application of physics to a variety of problems in structural engineering. Mechanics topics include one-dimensional motion, forces, vectors, Newton’s laws, equilibrium, work, energy, and power. Fluids topics include density, pressure, buoyancy, and fluids in motion. Vibrations and waves topics include mechanical vibrations and sound. Requires knowledge of algebra.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1145. Physics for Life Sciences 1. (4 Hours)
Covers mechanics, fluids, and temperature and kinetic theory. The application of physics to a variety of problems in the life and health sciences is emphasized. Mechanics topics include one-dimensional motion, forces, vectors, Newton’s laws, equilibrium, work, energy, and power. Fluids topics include density, pressure, buoyancy, fluids in motion, viscosity, and surface tension. Temperature and kinetic theory topics include temperature, thermal equilibrium, gas laws, ideal gas law, kinetic theory, vapor pressure, and diffusion. A laboratory is included.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1146
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1146. Lab for PHYS 1145. (1 Hour)
Accompanies PHYS 1145. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1145
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PHYS 1147. Physics for Life Sciences 2. (4 Hours)
Continues PHYS 1145. Covers heat, electricity, vibrations and waves, sound, geometrical optics, and nuclear physics and radioactivity. The application of physics to a variety of problems in the life and health sciences is emphasized. Electricity topics include electrostatics, capacitance, resistivity, direct-current circuits, and RC circuits. Vibrations and waves topics include simple harmonic motion and wave motion. Sound topics include wave characteristics, the ear, Doppler effect, shock waves, and ultrasound. Optics topics include reflection, mirrors, refraction, total internal reflection, fiber optics, lenses, the eye, telescopes, and microscopes. Nuclear physics and radioactivity topics include atomic nucleus, radioactivity, half-life, radioactive dating, detectors, nuclear reaction, fission, fusion, radiation damage, radiation therapy, PET, and MRI. A laboratory is included.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 1145 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1149 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1151 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1161 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1171 with a minimum grade of D-
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1148
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1148. Lab for PHYS 1147. (1 Hour)
Accompanies PHYS 1147. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1147
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PHYS 1149. Physics for Pharmacy. (4 Hours)
Offers an integrated lecture and laboratory course for pharmacy students.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1150
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1150. Lab for PHYS 1149. (1 Hour)
Accompanies PHYS 1149. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1149
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PHYS 1151. Physics for Engineering 1. (3 Hours)
Covers calculus-based physics. Offers the first semester of a two-semester integrated lecture and laboratory sequence intended primarily for engineering students. Covers Newtonian mechanics and fluids. Stresses the balance between understanding the basic concepts and solving specific problems. Includes topics such as one-dimensional and three-dimensional motion, Newton’s laws, dynamics friction, drag, work, energy and power, momentum and collisions, rotational dynamics, forces, torque and static equilibrium, pressure, fluids, and gravity.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1241 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1251 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1340 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1341 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1342 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2321 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1152. Lab for PHYS 1151. (1 Hour)
Accompanies PHYS 1151. Covers topics from the course through various experiments. Requires concurrent registration in PHYS 1151 and PHYS 1153.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PHYS 1153. Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151. (1 Hour)
Offers interactive problem solving for PHYS 1151. Emphasizes organized approaches and use of mathematical techniques, including calculus, to solve a wide range of problems in mechanics. Topics include static equilibrium, applications of Newton’s laws and conservation principles, rotational dynamics, and fluids. Requires concurrent registration in PHYS 1151 and PHYS 1152.
PHYS 1155. Physics for Engineering 2. (3 Hours)
Continues PHYS 1151. Offers integrated lecture and laboratory. Covers electrostatics; capacitors; resistors and direct-current circuits; magnetism and magnetic induction; RC, LR, and LRC circuits; waves; electromagnetic waves; and radiation.
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 1151 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1161 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1171 with a minimum grade of D- ); (MATH 1242 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1342 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2321 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- )
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1157
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1156. Lab for PHYS 1155. (1 Hour)
Accompanies PHYS 1155. Covers topics from the course through various experiments. Requires concurrent registration in PHYS 1155 and PHYS 1157.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PHYS 1157. Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155. (1 Hour)
Offers interactive problem solving for PHYS 1155. Emphasizes organized approaches and use of mathematical techniques, including calculus, to solve a wide range of problems in electricity, magnetism, and waves. Requires concurrent registration in PHYS 1155 and PHYS 1156.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1155
PHYS 1161. Physics 1. (4 Hours)
Covers calculus-based physics. Offers the first semester of a two-semester integrated lecture and laboratory sequence intended primarily for science students. Covers Newtonian mechanics and fluids. Emphasizes the underlying concepts and principles. Takes applications from a wide variety of fields, such as life sciences and medicine, astro- and planetary physics, and so on. Includes topics such as forces, torque and static equilibrium, one-dimensional and three-dimensional motion, Newton’s laws, dynamics friction, drag, work, energy and power, momentum and collisions, rotational dynamics, oscillations, pressure, fluids, and gravity.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1241 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1251 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1341 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1342 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2321 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1162, PHYS 1163
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1162. Lab for PHYS 1161. (1 Hour)
Accompanies PHYS 1161. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1161, PHYS 1163
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PHYS 1163. Recitation for PHYS 1161. (0 Hours)
Accompanies PHYS 1161. Offers an opportunity for interactive problem solving.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1161, PHYS 1162
PHYS 1165. Physics 2. (4 Hours)
Continues PHYS 1161. Offers the second semester of a two-semester integrated lecture and laboratory sequence intended primarily for science students. Includes topics such as electrostatics; capacitors; resistors and direct-current circuits; magnetism and magnetic induction; RC, LR, and LRC circuits; waves; electromagnetic waves; and fluids.
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 1151 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1161 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1171 with a minimum grade of D- ); (MATH 1342 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2321 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- )
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1166, PHYS 1167
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1166. Lab for PHYS 1165. (1 Hour)
Accompanies PHYS 1165. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1165, PHYS 1167
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PHYS 1167. Recitation for PHYS 1165. (0 Hours)
Accompanies PHYS 1165. Offers an opportunity for interactive problem solving.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1165, PHYS 1166
PHYS 1171. Physics 1 for Bioscience and Bioengineering. (3 Hours)
Designed for students in engineering and science majors with a biologically related curriculum. Studies the fundamentals of calculus-based physics through a relationship with living systems. Includes topics such as kinematics of living systems, stress/strain/strength of biomaterials, fluid flow and boundary layers, aspiration and circulatory models, diffusion and random motion, and thermodynamics with examples from living systems.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 1241 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1251 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1340 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1341 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1342 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2321 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1172. Lab for PHYS 1171. (1 Hour)
Accompanies PHYS 1171. Experiments include measurement and error, forces in one dimension, work and energy on an air track, fluid flow, Brownian diffusion, uniform circular motion, and ideal gas laws. Requires concurrent registration in PHYS 1171 and PHYS 1173.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PHYS 1173. Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1171. (1 Hour)
Offers interactive problem solving for PHYS 1171. Emphasizes organized approaches to solve a wide range of problems in the course. Requires concurrent registration in PHYS 1171 and PHYS 1172.
PHYS 1175. Physics 2 for Bioscience and Bioengineering. (3 Hours)
Continues PHYS 1171. Includes topics such as wave motion and hearing; electric fields (including application to biological membranes); direct current electrical circuits (including biological circuits); RC circuit models of ion channels; bioelectricity in marine organisms; electromagnetic waves and optics; modern physics (including radioactive decay, applications of radioactivity in nuclear medicine, and carbon 14 dating).
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 1151 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1161 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1171 with a minimum grade of D- ); (MATH 1242 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1342 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2321 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1176. Lab for PHYS 1175. (1 Hour)
Accompanies PHYS 1175. Experiments include standing waves, electric charge/field, DC circuits, gel electrophoresis, geometric optics, light spectroscopy, and radioactive decay. Requires concurrent registration in PHYS 1175 and PHYS 1177.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PHYS 1177. Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1175. (1 Hour)
Offers interactive problem solving for PHYS 1175. Emphasizes organized approaches to solve a wide range of problems in the course. Requires concurrent registration in PHYS 1175 and PHYS 1176.
PHYS 1191. Foundations of Theoretical Physics. (4 Hours)
Presents a comprehensive, self-contained introduction to the conceptual and mathematical foundations of theoretical physics. Commences with an integrated, first-principles approach to its five main areas: analytical dynamics, fields, statistical physics, relativity, and quantum theory. Focuses mostly on classical mechanics. Constitutes the first half of a two-semester calculus-based introductory physics sequence for science majors. Designed for students with preparation in Newtonian mechanics or those with advanced math preparation.
Prerequisite(s): (MATH 1241 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1242 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1341 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1342 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2321 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- )
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1192, PHYS 1193
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning, NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1192. Lab for PHYS 1191. (1 Hour)
Accompanies PHYS 1191. Covers topics from the course through various experiments.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1191, PHYS 1193
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PHYS 1193. Recitation for PHYS 1191. (0 Hours)
Accompanies PHYS 1191. Offers an opportunity for interactive problem solving.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 1191, PHYS 1192
PHYS 1211. Computational Problem Solving in Physics. (4 Hours)
Introduces students to computational problem-solving techniques with common computer languages used in the physical sciences. Begins with programming basics of data handling, visualization tools, random number generators, functions, and control statements and expands to more advanced topics of interpolation, numeric integration, numeric derivatives, ordinary differential equations, and some Monte Carlo techniques. Explores topics contextually using physical models and problems.
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 1155 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D or PHYS 1165 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D or PHYS 1175 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D ); (MATH 1342 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D or MATH 2321 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D )
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
PHYS 2303. Modern Physics. (4 Hours)
Reviews experiments demonstrating the atomic nature of matter, the properties of the electron, the nuclear atom, the wave-particle duality, spin, and the properties of elementary particles. Discusses, mostly on a phenomenological level, such subjects as atomic and nuclear structure, properties of the solid state, and elementary particles. Introduces the special theory of relativity.
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 1155 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1165 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1175 with a minimum grade of D- ); MATH 2321 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 2371. Electronics. (3 Hours)
Covers the physics underlying computers and our modern electronic world. Focuses on principles of semiconductor devices (diodes, transistors, integrated circuits, LEDs, photovoltaics); analog techniques (amplification, AC circuits, resonance); digital techniques (binary numbers, NANDs, logic gates, and circuits); electronic subsystems (operational amplifiers, magnetoelectronics, optoelectronics); and understanding commercial electronic equipment. Lab experiments are designed to investigate the properties of discrete and integrated devices and use them to design and build circuits.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 1165 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1155 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1175 with a minimum grade of D-
Corequisite(s): PHYS 2372
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 2372. Lab for PHYS 2371. (1 Hour)
Accompanies PHYS 2371. Illustrates topics from the lecture course through various hands-on experimental projects. Covers the process of electronics design from a goal-oriented perspective. Students are expected to consider their own electronics design project and build a prototype device that accomplishes a specific purpose.
Corequisite(s): PHYS 2371
Attribute(s): NUpath Creative Express/Innov
PHYS 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
PHYS 2991. Research in Physics. (1-4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct introductory-level research or creative endeavors under faculty supervision. May be repeated seven times.
PHYS 3111. Astrophysical Processes: Decoding the Universe. (4 Hours)
Introduces the important astrophysical processes happening in the universe, including interactions between astrophysical matter and radiation (scattering, absorption, refraction); interaction between astrophysical matter and space (Doppler effect and gravitational lensing); and emission of radiation from astrophysical sources (continuous and line). By the end of the course, successful students should be able to recognize the nature of an astrophysical source from the signal as detected on Earth or in space.
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 1155 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1165 with a minimum grade of D- ); PHYS 2303 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
PHYS 3211. Advanced Computational Problem Solving in Physics. (4 Hours)
Explores the application of scientific computing languages, such as Python, in modeling the physical world and advancing physics. Topics include linear and non-linear systems, eigensystems, ordinary differential equations, boundary value problems, Monte Carlo techniques, and machine learning. Contextualizes topics within natural phenomena, physics models, and physics problems. Emphasizes developing proficiency in computational methods for modeling nature and solving complex physical phenomena.
Prerequisite(s): (MATH 2331 with a minimum grade of C- or MATH 2341 with a minimum grade of C- ); PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of C-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PHYS 3600. Advanced Physics Laboratory. (4 Hours)
Introduces research through experiments that go beyond the simple demonstration of basic physical principles found in introductory physics courses. Data are taken to higher precision and the analysis is more in-depth. Experiments focus on lasers, fiber-optic communication, spectroscopy, Faraday rotation, speed of light, semiconductor physics, Hall effect, fuel cells, and Fourier analysis of music and sound. Lab reports are assessed on organization, format, grammar, and style. Offers students an opportunity to significantly improve their abilities in written scientific communication.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D- ; (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1113 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1114 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World, NUpath Writing Intensive
PHYS 3601. Classical Dynamics. (4 Hours)
Covers advanced topics in classical mechanics including vector kinematics, harmonic oscillator and resonance, generalized coordinates, Lagrange’s equations, central forces and the Kepler problem, rigid body motion, and mathematical methods in physics.
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 1155 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1165 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1175 with a minimum grade of D- ); (MATH 2341 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2351 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 3602. Electricity and Magnetism 1. (4 Hours)
First course of a two-course sequence in electricity, magnetism, and electromagnetic theory. Covers electrostatics and dielectric materials, magnetostatics and magnetic materials, currents in conductors, induction, displacement currents, computer solutions of EM problems, and Maxwell’s equations.
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 1155 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1165 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1175 with a minimum grade of D- ); MATH 2321 with a minimum grade of D- ; (MATH 2341 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2351 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 3603. Electricity and Magnetism 2. (4 Hours)
Continues PHYS 3602. Focuses on electromagnetic waves in vacua and matter, electrodynamics and radiation, and computer visualization of electromagnetic fields. Also considers special relativity.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 3602 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
PHYS 4111. Multimessenger Astrophysics. (4 Hours)
Investigates the variety of astrophysical signals produced by galactic and extragalactic sources, in connection with and independently from the electromagnetic wave (EM) signals. Introduces the basic theory behind the production, transmission, and detection of astrophysical neutrinos, cosmic rays, dark matter, and gravitational waves. Topical in nature, the course offers a solid introduction to the newest discoveries in astrophysics.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D-
PHYS 4115. Quantum Mechanics. (4 Hours)
Focuses on observations of macroscopic and microscopic bodies. Covers the uncertainty principle and wave-particle duality; probability amplitudes; Schrödinger wave theory and one-dimensional problems, Schrödinger equation in three dimensions; and angular momentum and the hydrogen atom.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning, NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 4305. Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics. (4 Hours)
Focuses on first and second laws of thermodynamics, entropy and equilibrium, thermodynamic potentials, elementary kinetic theory, statistical mechanics, and the statistical interpretation of entropy. Utilizes the principles of quantum mechanics to describe the behavior of thermodynamic/statistically-large systems such as quantum gases.
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 1155 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1165 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 1175 with a minimum grade of D- ); MATH 2321 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- ; PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 4606. Mathematical and Computational Methods for Physics. (4 Hours)
Covers advanced mathematical methods topics that are commonly used in the physical sciences, such as complex calculus, Fourier transforms, special functions, and the principles of variational calculus. Applies these methods to computational simulation and modeling exercises. Introduces basic computational techniques and numerical analysis, such as Newton’s method, Monte Carlo integration, gradient descent, and least squares regression. Uses a simple programming language, such as MATLAB, for the exercises.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D- ; MATH 2321 with a minimum grade of D- ; (MATH 2341 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2351 with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Formal/Quant Reasoning
PHYS 4621. Biological Physics 1. (4 Hours)
Offers an introduction to biophysics focusing on development and implementation of physical models for various biophysical processes that occur in living organisms and in living cells. Topics covered, some of which are explored through computational examples, include thermodynamics of solutions and cells, randomness, diffusion, entropy, membranes, electrostatics, and electricity in cells.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 4623. Medical Physics. (4 Hours)
Introduces the physical principles and basic mathematical methods underlying the various modalities of medical imaging. These include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), single-photon emission tomography (SPECT), and ultrasound. Covers nuclear physics and the interaction of radiation with biological matter with application to radiation therapy.
Prerequisite(s): MATH 2321 with a minimum grade of D-
PHYS 4651. Medical Physics Seminar 1. (4 Hours)
Offers the first part of a seminar series conducted by expert practitioners from Boston-area hospitals. Examines the clinical applications of medical imaging methods (CT, MRI, and PET), the clinical applications of radiation therapy, and the clinical applications of lasers and optical techniques. Includes site visits to local hospitals and medical instrumentation companies.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 4623 with a minimum grade of D-
PHYS 4652. Medical Physics Seminar 2. (4 Hours)
Continues PHYS 4651. Further examines the clinical applications of medical imaging methods (CT, MRI, and PET), the clinical applications of radiation therapy, and the clinical applications of lasers and optical techniques.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 4623 with a minimum grade of D-
PHYS 4970. Junior/Senior Honors Project 1. (4 Hours)
Focuses on in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Combined with Junior/Senior Project 2 or college-defined equivalent for 8-credit honors project. May be repeated without limit.
PHYS 4971. Junior/Senior Honors Project 2. (4 Hours)
Focuses on second semester of in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 4970 with a minimum grade of D-
PHYS 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
PHYS 4991. Research. (4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct research under faculty supervision.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
PHYS 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of a member of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated without limit.
PHYS 4996. Experiential Education Directed Study. (4 Hours)
Draws upon the student’s approved experiential activity and integrates it with study in the academic major. Restricted to those students who are using it to fulfill their experiential education requirement. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
PHYS 5113. Particle Physics. (4 Hours)
Introduces the physics of elementary particles and the fundamental interactions among them. Topics include classification of particles, electromagnetic interactions, strong and weak nuclear forces, mesons and nucleons, quarks and gluons, and unified theories of elementary particle interactions.
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D- ; PHYS 4115 with a minimum grade of D- ) or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 5114. Physics and Applications of Quantum Materials. (4 Hours)
Introduces students to the quantum materials, the nature and origins of their unique behaviors, and how these systems can be used to enable new quantum technologies. Beginning with a description of the electronic structure of solids, describes how interactions between electrons and spins can manifest electrical and magnetic properties that cannot be explained with a classical description and how isolated defects in solids can be utilized for quantum technologies.
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D- ; PHYS 3602 with a minimum grade of D- ; (PHYS 2305 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 4305 with a minimum grade of D- ); PHYS 4115 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- ) or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 5116. Network Science 1. (4 Hours)
Introduces network science and the set of analytical, numerical, and modeling tools used to understand complex networks emerging in nature and technology. Focuses on the empirical study of real networks, with examples coming from biology (metabolic, protein interaction networks), computer science (World Wide Web, Internet), or social systems (e-mail, friendship networks). Shows the organizing principles that govern the emergence of networks and the set of tools necessary to characterize and model them. Covers elements of graph theory, statistical physics, biology, and social science as they pertain to the understanding of complex systems.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 5117. Advanced Astrophysics Topics. (4 Hours)
Seeks to provide an understanding of our universe through the connection between cosmology and particle physics. Covers basic concepts of the modern universe, stellar structure and evolution, and dark matter theory while introducing recent astrophysical observations and experiments.
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D- ; (PHYS 2305 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 4305 with a minimum grade of D- )) or graduate program admission
PHYS 5118. General Relativity and Cosmology. (4 Hours)
Introduces basic concepts in the general theory of relativity, including Riemannian geometry and Einstein’s field equations. These concepts are applied in studying the standard model of cosmology. Topics include thermodynamics in an expanding universe, dark matter and dark energy, and modern theories of cosmology.
Prerequisite(s): (PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D- ; (PHYS 2305 with a minimum grade of D- or PHYS 4305 with a minimum grade of D- )) or graduate program admission
PHYS 5125. Advanced Quantum Mechanics. (4 Hours)
Introduces time-independent and time-dependent perturbation theory. Covers hydrogen fine structure, Zeeman effect, helium splitting, variational principle, adiabatic approximation, scattering theory, second quantization, and modern topics such as theory of quantum entanglement, quantum computing, and quantum biology.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 4115 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
PHYS 5260. Introduction to Nanoscience and Nanotechnology. (4 Hours)
Focuses on reviewing the basic scientific concepts relevant to this field and also gives a broad overview of the current state-of-the-art in research and technology. Nanotechnology promises to transform twenty-first century technology by exploiting phenomena exhibited by nanoscaled materials. This technology is expected to have significant impact in diverse areas such as computers, electronics, health, etc. Successful technological advancement of this field requires that we have a fundamental understanding of the “science” of these materials. This course comprises a series of lectures on various topics: development of nanofabrication methods, advanced microscopy techniques, fabrication of novel nanomaterials, investigation of their fundamental properties and device applications. Provides a strong introduction for students interested in nanoscience and technology.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PHYS 5318. Principles of Experimental Physics. (4 Hours)
Designed to introduce students to the techniques of modern experimental physics. Topics include communication and information physics, signal processing and noise physics, applied relativity physics, detector techniques, semiconductor and superconductor physics, nanoscale microscopy and manipulation, and lasers and quantum optics.
Prerequisite(s): PHYS 2303 with a minimum grade of D- or graduate program admission
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Natural/Designed World, NUpath Writing Intensive
PHYS 5352. Quantum Computation and Information. (4 Hours)
Introduces the foundations of quantum computation and information, including finite dimensional quantum mechanics, gates and circuits, quantum algorithms, quantum noise, and error-correcting codes. Assumes a working knowledge of linear algebra and matrix analysis, but no prior experience with quantum theory or algorithms is required.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/physics/applied-physics-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Applied Physics Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory Physics | ||
Physics 1 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 | ||
Foundations of Theoretical Physics and Lab for PHYS 1191 | ||
Physics 2 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics for Engineering 2 and Lab for PHYS 1155 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155 | ||
Physics 2 and Lab for PHYS 1165 | ||
Intermediate Physics | ||
PHYS 2303 | Modern Physics | 4 |
PHYS 2371 and PHYS 2372 | Electronics and Lab for PHYS 2371 | 4 |
Advanced Physics | ||
PHYS 3600 | Advanced Physics Laboratory | 4 |
PHYS 3602 | Electricity and Magnetism 1 | 4 |
PHYS 3603 | Electricity and Magnetism 2 | 4 |
PHYS 4305 | Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics | 4 |
Advanced Physics Electives | ||
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Mathematical and Computational Methods for Physics | ||
Classical Dynamics | ||
Quantum Mechanics | ||
Biological Physics 1 | ||
Medical Physics | ||
Medical Physics Seminar 1 | ||
Medical Physics Seminar 2 | ||
Particle Physics | ||
Network Science 1 | ||
Advanced Astrophysics Topics | ||
General Relativity and Cosmology | ||
Advanced Quantum Mechanics | ||
Introduction to Nanoscience and Nanotechnology | ||
Experiential Learning | ||
Note: The experiential learning requirement is waived following a student presentation connected with a co-op and/or research experience. The requirement is often fulfilled by a talk at a Society of Physics Students meeting but can be fulfilled by an adequately documented presentation at a professional meeting or at an appropriate campus event. Contact your faculty advisor for additional information. | ||
PHYS 4996 | Experiential Education Directed Study | 4 |
Senior Capstone | ||
PHYS 5318 | Principles of Experimental Physics | 4 |
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Mathematics | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2321 | Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2331 | Linear Algebra | 4 |
MATH 2341 | Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering | 4 |
Computational Methods | ||
PHYS 1211 | Computational Problem Solving in Physics | 4 |
or PHYS 1130 | Computing, Data, and Science | |
or GE 1111 | Engineering Problem Solving and Computation | |
Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1211 and CHEM 1212 | General Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 1211 | 5 |
Technical Electives | ||
Complete 16 semester hours of technical electives from the following: | 16 | |
BIOL 2301 to BIOL 5999 | ||
CHEM 2311 to CHEM 5999 | ||
CHME 2001 to CHME 4699 | ||
CIVE 2001 to CIVE 4699 | ||
CS 2990 to CS 4900 | ||
EECE 2001 to EECE 5999 | ||
ENVR 2300 to ENVR 5999 | ||
IE 2001 to IE 4699 | ||
Statistics and Software | ||
MATH 2321 to MATH 5999 | ||
ME 2001 to ME 4699 | ||
PHYS 2303 to PHYS 7999 |
NUpath Requirements
Students are responsible for using the general electives in this program to complete NUpath requirements not satisfied by required courses in this program.
Applied Physics Major Credit Requirement
Complete 95 semester hours in the major.
Astrophysics Concentration (Optional)
Students working toward this concentration must declare it with their advisor for it to be added to their academic record.
Note: Opting to take this concentration may require additional coursework to be completed beyond the total program hours.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Astrophysics Core | ||
PHYS 1111 | Introduction to Astronomy | 4 |
The following courses may be counted toward major electives, if they are listed as applicable options in the approved curriculum: | ||
PHYS 3111 | Astrophysical Processes: Decoding the Universe | 4 |
PHYS 4111 | Multimessenger Astrophysics | 4 |
PHYS 5117 | Advanced Astrophysics Topics | 4 |
or PHYS 5118 | General Relativity and Cosmology |
Program Requirement
133 total semester hours required
Note on Applied Physics Sample Plans of Study
Some required physics courses are offered in both fall and spring semesters, while other required courses are offered less frequently. Therefore, the suggested plan of study will vary from student to student, depending on the year of entry for that student. See course offering schedule at the end of the plan of study.
Please contact your academic advisor for additional information and plans of study.
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
INSC 1000 | 1 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | MATH 2321 | 4 | MATH 2341 | 4 |
PHYS 1161 | 4 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
PHYS 1162 | 1 | PHYS 1167 | 0 | ||||
PHYS 1163 | 0 | PHYS 1211 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 2303 | 4 | PHYS 4305 | 4 | PHYS 3600 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHYS 2371 | 3 | PHYS 3602 | 4 | PHYS 3603 | 4 | ||
PHYS 2372 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
MATH 2331 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1211 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||
CHEM 1212 | 1 | ||||||
CHEM 1213 | 0 | ||||||
17 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | PHYS advanced elective | 4 | Technical elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHYS advanced elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | ||||||
Technical elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | PHYS 5318 | 4 | ||||
PHYS advanced elective | 4 | ||||||
Technical elective | 4 | ||||||
Technical elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 133 |
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 1000 | 1 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
PHYS 1161 | 4 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 1162 | 1 | PHYS 1167 | 0 | ||||
PHYS 1163 | 0 | PHYS 1211 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 2303 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | MATH 2341 | 4 |
PHYS 2371 | 3 | PHYS 4305 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 2372 | 1 | ||||||
MATH 2321 | 4 | ||||||
CHEM 1211 | 4 | ||||||
CHEM 1212 | 1 | ||||||
CHEM 1213 | 0 | ||||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
18 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 3602 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | PHYS 3600 | 4 |
MATH 2331 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Technical elective | 4 | ||||||
Technical elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 3307 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Vacation | |
Technical elective | 4 | ||||||
Technical elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
PHYS 3603 | 4 | PHYS 5318 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | PHYS advanced elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | PHYS advanced elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | PHYS advanced elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 133 |
Physics Course Offering Schedule
PHYS 2303 offered every fall, spring, and summer 2
PHYS 2371/PHYS 2372 offered every fall
PHYS 3600 offered every summer 1 and summer 2
PHYS 3601 offered every fall and spring
PHYS 3602 offered every fall and spring
PHYS 3603 offered fall, spring all years, and summer 1 (odd years)
PHYS 4115 offered every fall and spring
PHYS 4305 offered fall, spring all years, and summer 2 (even years)
PHYS 4621 offered fall (even years) and spring (odd years)
PHYS 4623 offered fall (even years) and summer 1 (even years)
PHYS 4651 offered fall (odd years) and spring (odd years)
PHYS 4652 offered every spring
PHYS 5318 offered every spring
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/physics/astrophysics-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Introductory Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
PHYS 1111 | Introduction to Astronomy | 4 |
Complete one of the following sequences: | 10 | |
Physics 1 and 2 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 | ||
Physics 2 and Lab for PHYS 1165 | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and 2 | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics for Engineering 2 and Lab for PHYS 1155 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155 |
Intermediate Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
PHYS 2303 | Modern Physics | 4 |
PHYS 3111 | Astrophysical Processes: Decoding the Universe | 4 |
Advanced Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
PHYS 4111 | Multimessenger Astrophysics | 4 |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/physics/physics-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Physics Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory Physics | ||
Physics 1 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 | ||
Foundations of Theoretical Physics and Lab for PHYS 1191 | ||
Physics 2 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics for Engineering 2 and Lab for PHYS 1155 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155 | ||
Physics 2 and Lab for PHYS 1165 | ||
Intermediate Physics | ||
PHYS 2303 | Modern Physics | 4 |
PHYS 2371 and PHYS 2372 | Electronics and Lab for PHYS 2371 | 4 |
Advanced Physics | ||
PHYS 3600 | Advanced Physics Laboratory | 4 |
PHYS 3601 | Classical Dynamics | 4 |
PHYS 3602 | Electricity and Magnetism 1 | 4 |
PHYS 3603 | Electricity and Magnetism 2 | 4 |
PHYS 4115 | Quantum Mechanics | 4 |
PHYS 4305 | Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics | 4 |
Elective Course | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Mathematical and Computational Methods for Physics | ||
PHYS 3500 to PHYS 7999 | ||
Experiential Learning | ||
Complete one course in experiential learning. See department for approved courses. Note: The experiential learning requirement is waived following a student presentation connected with a co-op and/or research experience. The requirement is often fulfilled by a talk at a Society of Physics Students meeting but can be fulfilled by an adequately documented presentation at a professional meeting or at an appropriate campus event. Contact your faculty advisor for additional information. | ||
Senior Capstone | ||
PHYS 5318 | Principles of Experimental Physics | 4 |
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Mathematics | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2321 | Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2331 | Linear Algebra | 4 |
MATH 2341 | Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering | 4 |
MATH 3081 | Probability and Statistics | 4 |
Computational Methods | ||
PHYS 1211 | Computational Problem Solving in Physics | 4 |
or PHYS 1130 | Computing, Data, and Science | |
or GE 1111 | Engineering Problem Solving and Computation | |
Chemistry | ||
CHEM 1211 and CHEM 1212 | General Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 1211 | 5 |
Technical Electives | ||
Complete 8 semester hours from the following: | 8 | |
BIOL 2301 to BIOL 5999 | ||
CHEM 2311 to CHEM 5999 | ||
CHME 2001 to CHME 4699 | ||
CIVE 2001 to CIVE 4699 | ||
CS 2990 to CS 4900 | ||
EECE 2001 to EECE 5999 | ||
ENVR 2300 to ENVR 5999 | ||
IE 2001 to IE 4699 | ||
Statistics and Software | ||
MATH 2321 to MATH 5999 | ||
ME 2001 to ME 4699 | ||
PHYS 2303 to PHYS 7999 |
NUpath Requirements
Students are responsible for using the general electives in this program to complete NUpath requirements not satisfied by required courses in this program.
Physics Major Credit Requirement
Complete 91 semester hours in the major.
Astrophysics Concentration (Optional)
Students working toward this concentration must declare it with their advisor for it to be added to their academic record.
Note: Opting to take this concentration may require additional coursework to be completed beyond the total program hours.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Astrophysics Core | ||
PHYS 1111 | Introduction to Astronomy | 4 |
The following courses may be counted toward major electives, if they are listed as applicable options in the approved curriculum: | ||
PHYS 3111 | Astrophysical Processes: Decoding the Universe | 4 |
PHYS 4111 | Multimessenger Astrophysics | 4 |
PHYS 5117 | Advanced Astrophysics Topics | 4 |
or PHYS 5118 | General Relativity and Cosmology |
Program Requirement
133 total semester hours required
Note on Physics Plans of Study
Some required physics courses are offered in both fall and spring semesters, while other required courses are offered less frequently. Therefore, the suggested plan of study will vary from student to student, depending on the year of entry for that student. See course offering schedule at the end of the plan of study.
Please contact your academic advisor for additional information and plans of study.
Sample Plan of Study: Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 1000 | 1 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
PHYS 1161 | 4 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 1162 | 1 | PHYS 1167 | 0 | ||||
PHYS 1163 | 0 | PHYS 1211 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 2303 | 4 | PHYS 3601 | 4 | Vacation | Co-op | 0 | |
PHYS 2371 | 3 | MATH 2331 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 2372 | 1 | MATH 2341 | 4 | ||||
MATH 2321 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
CHEM 1211 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||
CHEM 1212 | 1 | ||||||
CHEM 1213 | 0 | ||||||
17 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | PHYS 3602 | 4 | PHYS 3600 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
MATH 3081 | 4 | PHYS 3603 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | PHYS 4115 | 4 | Technical elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHYS 4305 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | PHYS 5318 | 4 | ||||
PHYS advanced elective | 4 | ||||||
Technical elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 133 |
Odd-Numbered Year One
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 1000 | 1 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | MATH 2321 | 4 | MATH 2331 | 4 |
PHYS 1161 | 4 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | Elective | 4 | MATH 2341 | 4 |
PHYS 1162 | 1 | PHYS 1167 | 0 | ||||
PHYS 1163 | 0 | MATH 1342 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1341 | 4 | PHYS 1211 | 4 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | CHEM 1211 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | CHEM 1212 | 1 | ||||
CHEM 1213 | 0 | ||||||
18 | 18 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 2303 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | PHYS 3600 | 4 |
PHYS 2371 | 3 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS 2372 | 1 | ||||||
PHYS 3602 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
EESC 2000 | 1 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 3601 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | MATH 3081 | 4 |
PHYS 3603 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
PHYS 4115 | 4 | PHYS 5318 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 4305 | 4 | PHYS advanced elective | 4 | ||||
ENGW 3307 | 4 | Technical elective | 4 | ||||
Technical elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 133 |
Physics Course Offering Schedule
PHYS 2303 offered every fall, spring, and summer 2
PHYS 2371/PHYS 2372 offered every fall
PHYS 3600 offered every summer 1 and summer 2
PHYS 3601 offered every fall and spring
PHYS 3602 offered every fall and spring
PHYS 3603 offered fall, spring all years, and summer 1 (odd years)
PHYS 4115 offered every fall and spring
PHYS 4305 offered fall, spring all years, and summer 2 (even years)
PHYS 4621 offered fall (even years) and spring (odd years)
PHYS 4623 offered fall (even years) and summer 1 (even years)
PHYS 4651 offered fall (odd years) and spring (odd years)
PHYS 4652 offered every spring
PHYS 5318 offered every spring
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/physics/physics-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Required Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Physics 1 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 | ||
Foundations of Theoretical Physics and Lab for PHYS 1191 | ||
Physics 2 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics for Engineering 2 and Lab for PHYS 1155 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155 | ||
Physics 2 and Lab for PHYS 1165 |
Modern Physics
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
PHYS 2303 | Modern Physics | 4 |
Elective Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Mathematical and Computational Methods for Physics | ||
PHYS 2300 to PHYS 5999 |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/physics/physics-philosophy-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Physics Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory Physics | ||
Physics 1 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics 1 and Lab for PHYS 1161 | ||
Physics for Engineering 1 and Lab for PHYS 1151 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1151 | ||
Physics 2 | ||
Complete one of the following: | 5 | |
Physics 2 and Lab for PHYS 1165 | ||
Physics for Engineering 2 and Lab for PHYS 1155 and Interactive Learning Seminar for PHYS 1155 | ||
Intermediate Physics | ||
PHYS 2303 | Modern Physics | 4 |
PHYS 2371 and PHYS 2372 | Electronics and Lab for PHYS 2371 | 4 |
Advanced Physics | ||
PHYS 3600 | Advanced Physics Laboratory | 4 |
PHYS 3602 | Electricity and Magnetism 1 | 4 |
PHYS 4115 | Quantum Mechanics | 4 |
PHYS 4305 | Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics | 4 |
Physics Elective | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Mathematical and Computational Methods for Physics | ||
Biological Physics 1 | ||
Medical Physics | ||
Medical Physics Seminar 1 | ||
Medical Physics Seminar 2 | ||
Particle Physics | ||
Network Science 1 | ||
Introduction to Nanoscience and Nanotechnology |
Philosophy Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Philosophy Required Courses | ||
PHIL 1115 | Introduction to Logic | 4 |
PHIL 2325 | Ancient Philosophy and Political Thought | 4 |
or POLS 2325 | Ancient Philosophy and Political Thought | |
PHIL 2330 | Modern Philosophy | 4 |
PHIL 4500 | Theory of Knowledge | 4 |
or PHIL 3050 | Information and Uncertainty | |
Advanced Philosophy Electives | ||
Complete two PHIL courses with a designation of 3000 or above not used to satisfy another requirement, with at least one at 4000 or 5000 level. | 8 | |
Critical Philosophy Elective | ||
Complete one of the following courses not used to fulfill another requirement: | 4 | |
Introduction to African American and Africana Studies | ||
Goddesses, Witches, Saints, and Sinners: Women and Religion | ||
Sex in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam | ||
Human Rights | ||
Indigenous Philosophy | ||
Race and Religion in Film | ||
Sexuality, Gender, and the Law | ||
Philosophy of Race and Racism | ||
Philosophy Electives | ||
Complete one additional PHIL course not used to satisfy other requirements. | 4 |
Physics/Philosophy Integrative Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Integrative Course Requirements | ||
PHIL 4510 | Philosophy of Science | 4 |
or PHIL 3360 | Scientific Approaches to Philosophy | |
PHYS 3601 | Classical Dynamics | 4 |
Breadth Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Mathematics | ||
MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 1342 | Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2321 | Calculus 3 for Science and Engineering | 4 |
MATH 2341 | Differential Equations and Linear Algebra for Engineering | 4 |
Physics and Philosophy Major Credit Requirement
Complete 94 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
132 total semester hours required
Notes on Physics Plans of Study
Some required physics courses are offered in both fall and spring semesters, while other required courses are offered less frequently. Therefore, the suggested plan of study will vary from student to student, depending on the year of entry for that student.
See course offering schedule at the end of the plans of study.
Please contact your academic advisor for additional information and plans of study.
Even-Numbered Year One
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
MATH 1341 | 4 | PHIL 2325 | 4 | ||||
PHIL 1115 | 4 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1000 | 1 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 1161 | 4 | PHYS 1167 | 0 | ||||
PHYS 1162 | 1 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1163 | 0 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MATH 2321 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | Vacation | Co-op | 0 | |
PHIL 2330 | 4 | MATH 2341 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 2303 | 4 | PHYS 3601 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 2371 | 3 | PHIL critical elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS 2372 | 1 | PHIL elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | PHIL 4500 | 4 | PHYS 3600 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHYS 4115 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PHIL advanced elective | 4 | ||||||
PHYS elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3307 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHIL 4510 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS 3602 | 4 | ||||||
PHIL elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | PHYS 4305 | 4 | ||||
PHIL advanced elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 132 |
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | MATH 1342 | 4 | MATH 2321 | 4 | MATH 2341 | 4 |
MATH 1341 | 4 | PHIL 2325 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
PHIL 1115 | 4 | PHIL 2330 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1000 | 1 | PHYS 1165 | 4 | ||||
PHYS 1161 | 4 | PHYS 1166 | 1 | ||||
PHYS 1162 | 1 | PHYS 1167 | 0 | ||||
PHYS 1163 | 0 | ||||||
18 | 17 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHYS 2303 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | PHYS 3600 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHYS 2371 | 3 | PHYS 3601 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
PHYS 2372 | 1 | PHYS 3602 | 4 | ||||
Critical PHIL elective | 4 | PHIL advanced elective | 4 | ||||
PHIL elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | PHIL 4500 | 4 | ENGW 3307 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PHIL 4510 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PHYS 4115 | 4 | ||||||
PHYS elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | PHYS 4305 | 4 | ||||
PHIL advanced elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 132 |
Physics Course Offering Schedule
PHYS 2303 offered every fall, spring, and summer 2
PHYS 2371/PHYS 2372 offered every fall
PHYS 3600 offered every summer 1 and summer 2
PHYS 3601 offered every fall and spring
PHYS 3602 offered every fall and spring
PHYS 3603 offered fall, spring all years, and summer 1 (odd years)
PHYS 4115 offered every fall and spring
PHYS 4305 offered fall, spring all years, and summer 2 (even years)
PHYS 4621 offered fall (even years) and spring (odd years)
PHYS 4623 offered fall (even years) and summer 1 (even years)
PHYS 4651 offered fall (odd years) and spring (odd years)
PHYS 4652 offered every spring
PHYS 5318 offered every spring
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/psychology/
Bachelor of Science (BS)
- Psychology
- American Sign Language and Psychology
- Business Administration and Psychology
- Computer Science and Cognitive Psychology
- Criminal Justice and Psychology
- Data Science and Psychology
- Economics and Psychology
- Health Science and Psychology
- Human Services and Psychology
- Linguistics and Psychology
- Mathematics and Psychology
- Psychology and Design
- Psychology and Music
- Psychology and Theatre
Minor
Psychology Courses
PSYC 1000. Psychology at Northeastern. (1 Hour)
Introduces students to the major and to the professional and academic resources available to students at Northeastern University. Introduces students to their faculty, advisors, and fellow students; educates students about the cooperative education program; familiarizes students with undergraduate research and technological resources; and introduces problem-solving and leadership skills, which students need to succeed in school and in their professional endeavors. Students who do not meet course prerequisites may seek permission of instructor.
PSYC 1101. Foundations of Psychology. (4 Hours)
Surveys the fundamental principles, concepts, and issues in the major areas of basic and applied psychological science. Approaches the study of psychology as a method of inquiry as well as a body of knowledge. Introduces students to research methods and to psychological research on the biological bases of behavior, learning, sensation and perception, cognition and language, development, emotion, social psychology, personality, and psychological disorders.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World, NUpath Societies/Institutions
PSYC 1208. Psychology and the Law. (4 Hours)
Introduces the range of topics that are of concern both to psychologists and to members of the legal profession. Covers the legal and ethical issues inherent in the conduct and process of professional psychology. Topics include confidentiality, ethical competence, duty to warn, expert testimony, malpractice, and forensic matters, such as the insanity defense. Discusses professional practice issues revolving around ethical concerns as they relate to specific weekly topics. Specifically, discusses five ethical theories (egoism, utilitarianism, deontology, care ethics, virtue ethics) used in case analysis. Examines the role of ethical theory as it applies to the expert’s self-interest and personal position, positive and negative consequences for the defendant and society at large, psychologist expert duties to themselves, and conflicts. Designed to help students think about the legal system and its role in society today through a psychological lens.
Attribute(s): NUpath Ethical Reasoning
PSYC 1210. Sports Psychology. (4 Hours)
Studies the physical, affective, and cognitive behaviors associated with sport participation and also examines the psychological theories and research related to sport and exercise behavior. Introduces students to the field of sport and exercise psychology by providing a broad overview of the major topics in the area, including the history of sport and exercise psychology, leadership, self-confidence, youth sports, aggression, moral development, team dynamics, anxiety and arousal, goal setting, imagery, and motivation. Covers the psychological makeup of athletes, how psychological factors influence involvement and performance in sport, and helps students acquire the skills and knowledge about sport and exercise psychology that they can apply to their everyday lives.
PSYC 1214. The Moral Mind: The Science Underlying Ethical Decision-Making and Virtuous Character. (4 Hours)
Offers a scientific lens through which to analyze the mental mechanisms and processes that guide moral and ethical decision making. Although the majority of the evidence and perspectives covered stem from psychological and neuroscientific work, the course is interdisciplinary in nature by incorporating relevant perspectives from behavioral economics, evolutionary biology, and philosophy. The primary goal is to offer insight, not only into how the human mind automatically parses ethical issues in given situations but also how control can be gained over such mechanisms, thereby allowing greater efficacy in guiding morality according to consciously embraced principles.
Attribute(s): NUpath Ethical Reasoning
PSYC 1250. Drugs and Behavior. (4 Hours)
Offers beginning students a general overview of the effects of drug use/abuse in many segments of society with particular attention placed on the collegiate population. Describes historical aspects of drug use for treatments of clinical disease states along with psychological theories of drug abuse and strategies for prevention of drug use/abuse. Covers biological effects emanating from several drug categories and the clinical use of drugs to promote positive therapeutic outcomes.
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
PSYC 1300. Emotion. (4 Hours)
Examines the empirical findings, theoretical approaches, and laboratory methods in the science of emotion. Emotion is integral to nearly every part of society, including legal and economic matters, health, and social relationships. But do we truly understand what emotions are and how they work? Offers students an opportunity to practice evaluating claims about emotion made in the popular press, to develop skills in communicating information in science effectively, and to examine the process by which scientists determine whether and how emotion plays a role in a wide range of phenomena (e.g., sports psychology, health, artificial intelligence, etc.).
PSYC 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
PSYC 2101. Love and Hate: Social, Psychological, and Literary Approaches. (4 Hours)
Studies materials that define and describe love and hate from the fields of literature and literary criticism, social psychology, and criminology and criminal justice. “Love” and “hate” are small words describing powerful emotions with profound effects on individuals and on social groups. Focusing largely on contemporary examples, offers students an opportunity to analyze the differences and areas of overlap in the above fields’ approaches to love and hate, to discuss societal responses to these emotions, and to apply the methodologies of each field to research questions of their own. INSH 2101 and PSYC 2101 are cross-listed.
Prerequisite(s): ENGW 1111 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C
Attribute(s): NUpath Interpreting Culture, NUpath Societies/Institutions
PSYC 2315. Statistics in Psychological Research Supplement. (1 Hour)
Covers basic principles of statistical analysis of research data, including descriptive statistics, probability, and hypothesis testing. Supplements AP statistics with more advanced statistical methods and the use of statistical software packages, including analysis of variance and the use of SPSS, which are foundational tools in psychological research but are not covered in the AP statistics curriculum.
PSYC 2320. Statistics in Psychological Research. (4 Hours)
Offers an overview of descriptive and inferential statistics with a focus on psychological applications. Covers standard material in undergraduate statistics including distributions, central tendency, variability, z-scores, the normal distributions, correlation, regression, probability, hypothesis testing (using the z, t, F, and chi-square statistics), and confidence intervals. Should be taken before the end of the sophomore year.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
PSYC 2370. Cross-Cultural Psychology. (4 Hours)
Introduces students to the role of culture in psychological science. Discusses the relationship of culture to psychological theories and research. Investigates psychological research in WEIRD (western, educated, industrialized, rich, democratic) populations compared to those less frequently studied. Demonstrates possible psychological universals while accounting for cultural influences on psychology and behavior. Critically considers theoretical and methodological issues, accurate interpretation of cross-cultural findings, and practical applications.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Difference/Diversity, NUpath Interpreting Culture
PSYC 2396. The Psychology of Misinformation. (4 Hours)
Examines the psychological processes involved in the believing, sharing, and correcting of misinformation. Explores the cognitive and social factors that contribute to the spread of misinformation and its impact on individuals and society. Introduces methods of experiment design and opportunities to engage in experimental research for understanding misinformation.
Attribute(s): NUpath Societies/Institutions
PSYC 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
PSYC 2991. Research in Psychology. (1-4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to conduct introductory-level research or creative endeavors under faculty supervision. May be repeated seven times.
PSYC 3200. Clinical Neuroanatomy. (4 Hours)
Introduces students to the structure and function of the central nervous system (CNS) from spinal cord to cerebral cortex by using lesions of the human nervous system as a tool to reinforce and amplify learning of the structure and organization of the CNS. Assumes no prior knowledge of brain structures and begins with basic vocabulary, including directions, planes of dissection, and parts of brain cells. Seeks to provide the necessary anatomical foundation for further study in psychology and the neurosciences.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2290 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3400. Personality. (4 Hours)
Offers a systematic study of the normal personality and its development. Focuses on behavioral, dynamic, social, and cognitive determinants, assessment of personality, and current research topics; surveys the major theories of personality.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3402. Social Psychology. (4 Hours)
Provides an introductory survey of social psychology. Topics include aggression, attribution, attitude formation; and change, attraction, gender and culture, conformity, impression formation, and group processes.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3404. Developmental Psychology. (4 Hours)
Examines change throughout the life span in social relationships, emotional functioning, language, cognition, and other psychological domains, with emphasis on infancy through adolescence. Introduces major theories of development. Stresses the interaction of social and cognitive factors in development, and the interaction of the developing person with the environment. Also explores individual and cross-cultural differences in patterns of development, and research issues in developmental psychology.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3406. Clinical Psychology and Mental Health. (4 Hours)
Addresses diagnosis, theoretical perspectives, anxiety, and defense mechanisms. Examines the symptomatology, etiology, and treatment of a number of disorders including anxiety, dissociative, somatoform, affective (depression, mania), and schizophrenic disorders.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3450. Learning and Motivation. (4 Hours)
Offers an introduction to the basic learning and motivational principles that permit humans and animals to adapt effectively to a changing environment. Emphasizes research and theories of operant and Pavlovian conditioning, with discussions of discriminations and generalization, avoidance and punishment, acquired motivational states (for example, addiction), concept formation, biological constraints on learning and behavior, animal cognition, and other related topics. Relates learning and motivational principles to the understanding and treatment of behavioral, affective, cognitive, and motivational disorders.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3451. Learning Principles and Behavior Analysis. (4 Hours)
Introduces the basic concepts and theories of applied behavior analysis as they relate to learning and motivation. Topics include operant and classical conditioning, reinforcement, punishment, extinction, discrimination training, stimulus control, concept formation, and generalization. Throughout the course, offers students an opportunity to apply these principles to learning that occurs in their everyday lives as well as in the lives of individuals with developmental disabilities and other learning disorders.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3452. Sensation and Perception. (4 Hours)
Discusses how our five senses work to aid us in perceiving states of the body and of the world, how our perceptions are modified by what we know and expect, and how sensation and perception develop (especially in infancy). Includes discussion of neural and anatomical bases of sensation and perception. PSYC 3458 is highly recommended.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3458. Biological Psychology. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the relation between brain function and human behavior. Examines how nerve cells function individually and work together both in small networks and in the nervous system; the structure of the nervous system; how our sense organs provide the nervous system with information about the outside world; how the brain controls movement; and how psychological concepts from motivation to language and memory are represented in the brain.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3464. Psychology of Language. (4 Hours)
Provides a basic introduction to psycholinguistics. Topics include the nature and structure of languages, processes involved in the production and comprehension of language, the biological bases of language, and aspects of language acquisition. Examines current theories of language processing and related experimental findings.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3466. Cognition. (4 Hours)
Provides a basic introduction to human cognition. Topics include pattern recognition, attention, memory, categorization and concept formation, problem solving, and aspects of cognitive development. Examines current theories of cognitive processing and related experimental findings.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3506. Neuropsychology of Fear. (4 Hours)
Explores our understanding of the physiological and cognitive aspects of fear, from early theories of emotion to current research in both humans and animal models. Emphasizes linking brain structure to function—how do different brain regions contribute to fear processing and expression? Also focuses on psychiatric illnesses whose symptoms suggest a maladaptive fear response, such as post-traumatic stress disorder and phobias. What causes these illnesses, and how does our understanding of the neural basis of fear inform our treatment strategies for these disorders? Students who do not meet course prerequisites may seek permission of instructor.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3508. Behavioral Endocrinology. (4 Hours)
Presents an overview of the field of behavioral endocrinology from a psychological perspective. Examines how hormones influence brain structure and function; how hormones affect behavior and vice versa; sex differences in brain and behavior; and the role of hormones in mood disorders, cognition, and stress.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3510. Brain, Behavior, and Immunity. (4 Hours)
Explores how our behavior is affected by (and how it affects) our immune system. The brain and the immune system regulate our behavioral responses to the world around us, which helps explain why we feel “down” when we’re sick and why we often catch a cold when we’re stressed. Offers students an opportunity to better understand how we have evolved to psychologically adapt to environmental challenges—and, importantly, how this can sometimes backfire with mental illness as an outcome. Students who do not meet course prerequisites may seek permission of instructor.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3540. Environmental Psychology. (4 Hours)
Incorporates themes from cognitive psychology and environmental science to examine how people understand the environment and their place in it and how this understanding varies with culture, informal experience, and formal education. Examines relations between environmental cognition, environmental attitudes, values and norms, and sustainable behavior.
Prerequisite(s): ENVR 1101 with a minimum grade of D- or ENVR 1400 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3545. Ethics in Animal Research. (4 Hours)
Addresses ethical considerations for the treatment of animals in psychological research. Presents a comprehensive overview of animal ethical treatment policies at research institutes as well as animal research laboratory trainings and qualifications. Explores historical and current perspectives on animal healthcare and well-being, and discusses alternatives to animal research.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3973. Special Topics in Psychology. (4 Hours)
Examines selected topics in psychology. Topics vary each semester. May be repeated once.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
PSYC 4505. Industrial/Organizational Psychology. (4 Hours)
Surveys the psychological fundamentals underlying performance in work settings. Topics include psychological testing; performance evaluation; training, motivating, and leading employees; and the social psychology of organizations. Emphasizes ethical and affirmative action issues.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 3402 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 4510. Psychopharmacology. (4 Hours)
Examines interactions between drugs, brain, and behavior. Focuses on such topics as synaptic transmission, behavioral functions of specific neurotransmitter systems, pharmacological treatment of mental and neurological disorders, and drug abuse.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 4512. Neuropsychology. (4 Hours)
Examines the behavior of neurological patients and normal patients to develop an understanding of how the human brain works to produce higher mental functions. Topics include discussions of brain scans, human neuroanatomy, cerebral lateralization, language, memory, neurological disorders, and neural plasticity and recovery of function.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 4514. Clinical Neuroscience. (4 Hours)
Explores the neurobiological, genetic, and neurochemical etiology of mental illness as described and categorized according to the DSM. Discusses how psychology, neuroscience, pharmacology, and medicine come together to manage mental illness. Investigates, for each specific mental illness covered, how changes in physiology and biology might manifest in the aberrant behaviors that define psychopathology. Lastly, examines how pharmacology is often used to treat these various mental illnesses and how genetic expression is involved in predisposing some people to these disorders while sparing others.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 4522. Psychology of Reading. (4 Hours)
Provides an overview of issues in the psychology of reading. Topics include the nature of the reading process as a perceptual and cognitive activity, eye movement patterns in reading, stages of reading development, and dyslexia. Examines current theories of reading and text comprehension.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 3464 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3466 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 4524. Cognitive Development. (4 Hours)
Explores cognitive processes in infancy and childhood, how those processes change with age, and theoretical explanations for those changes. Topics may include understanding the physical world, memory, categorization, reasoning, problem solving, social cognition, language and conceptual development, and individual and/or group differences in cognitive development. Emphasis may vary by semester.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 3404 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3466 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 4540. Quantitative Topics in Psychology and Behavioral Neuroscience. (4 Hours)
Surveys key quantitative topics in psychology and behavioral neuroscience. Emphasizes theory and modeling, not statistics. Specific topics vary, but all are drawn from domains in which mathematics and computation play a significant role. Topics may include Fourier analysis with applications to vision and hearing, neural circuit computation, signal detection theory applied to human and nonhuman animals' decisions, measurement of sensory magnitudes in vision and hearing, the linear algebraic theory of color matching in humans, and analysis and models of human response time. Students complete weekly readings and a final project, typically involving use of software for data analysis.
Prerequisite(s): (MATH 1341 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1241 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 1251 with a minimum grade of D- ); (PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 3081 with a minimum grade of D- ); (BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3452 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3464 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3466 with a minimum grade of D- )
PSYC 4570. Behavioral Genetics. (4 Hours)
Explores the genetic basis of behavior. Behavioral genetics is considered to lie at the intersection of psychology and genetics and is a dynamic field with plenty of possibility. Offers students an opportunity to hone and develop a stronger foundation in the principles of Mendelian, population, and quantitative genetics. Studies the genetic basis for sleep, social behavior, responses to environmental stimuli, learning, memory, addiction, and the etiology of neuropsychiatric disorders.
Prerequisite(s): BIOL 2301 with a minimum grade of D- ; (BIOL 3405 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D- )
PSYC 4600. Laboratory in Research Design. (4 Hours)
Addresses the theoretical concepts, design, execution, analysis, and communication of research in psychology. Provides students with various methods to acquire hands-on experience performing a research project of their own creation. Students move systematically through the research process, from refining their original idea in the context of existing literature to interpreting and communicating their results. Requires prior completion of research-area course.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4604. Laboratory in Learning and Motivation. (4 Hours)
Gives students the opportunity to gain proficiency, through direct experience, in lab analysis of behavior and in evaluating common generalizations about human behavior. Students design and perform experiments in animal and human learning, memory, decision processes, concept formation, and other topics of individual interest.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); (PSYC 3450 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3451 with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4606. Laboratory in Biological Psychology. (4 Hours)
Introduces the methods of research in psychobiology. Students work in small groups, conducting three to four hands-on laboratory exercises under supervised conditions. Students read selections of the relevant scientific literature, analyze the collected data, and write experimental reports.
Prerequisite(s): (MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D- ; (ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4610. Laboratory in Psycholinguistics. (4 Hours)
Provides students the opportunity to acquire firsthand experience in conducting research on issues in the psychology of language. Focuses on experiments and their implications for broader issues of language processing. Involves students in all aspects of each experiment including collecting and analyzing data and preparing lab reports.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); (PSYC 3464 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3466 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4612. Laboratory in Cognition. (4 Hours)
Provides students the opportunity to acquire firsthand experience in conducting research on issues in human cognition. Focuses on experiments and their implications for broader issues of cognitive functioning. Involves students in all aspects of each experiment including collecting and analyzing data and preparing lab reports.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); (PSYC 3464 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3466 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4614. Laboratory in Social Psychology. (4 Hours)
Provides an introduction to the methods of social-psychological research. Assists students in developing the ability to read published social research with a critical eye, to pose questions in a testable manner, to apply experimental methods to social research, and to express themselves in APA journal style.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); PSYC 3402 with a minimum grade of D- ; (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4616. Laboratory in Personality. (4 Hours)
Provides an introduction to the methods and areas of personality research. Discusses problems of measurement, control, and interpretation. Critically examines representative published experiments. Students design, collect data for, assess, and write up several experiments.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); PSYC 3400 with a minimum grade of D- ; (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4622. Laboratory in Sensation and Perception. (4 Hours)
Focuses on experiments using psychophysical methods in the various senses, typically including audition, vision, and others. Students collect data on themselves, analyze the data statistically, and write reports. Critical thinking is stressed.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); PSYC 3452 with a minimum grade of D- ; (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4624. Laboratory in Affective Science. (4 Hours)
Provides instruction in the methods of affective science (i.e., the study of what emotions are and how they work). Students are expected to become members of a functioning lab team, which uses a multimethod approach combined with various theoretical frameworks to guide research in affective science. Offers students an opportunity to develop the ability to read the scientific literature; think critically about research questions; design, conduct, and analyze experiments; and write in APA journal style, as well as to gain valuable interpersonal and organizational skills that come from working on a team.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4626. Laboratory in Life-Span Emotional Development. (4 Hours)
Studies life-span development and how emotional experience, perception, and regulation changes across the life span. Lab teams use a multimethod approach and theoretical frameworks to guide research in emotional development. Offers students an opportunity to learn how to read the scientific literature; think critically about research questions; design, conduct, and analyze experiments; write in the journal style of the American Psychological Association; and gain interpersonal and organizational skills while working on a research team. PSYC 3402 highly recommended.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4628. Laboratory in Developmental Psychology. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to acquire firsthand experience in conducting research on issues in human development. Focuses on experimental and observational research across the life span. Involves students in all aspects of each research project, including designing original research, collecting and analyzing data, preparing lab reports, and presenting findings.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); (PSYC 3404 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 4524 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4632. Laboratory in Psychophysiology. (4 Hours)
Introduces the principles and practice of psychophysiology. Psychophysiology is an interdisciplinary science that uses biological measures, typically those recorded via sensors on or imaging of the body, where the scientific goal is to understand psychological processes, psychological principles, or the effects of psychological interventions. Combines learning about the basic methods of psychophysiology (with an emphasis on peripheral psychophysiology), the principles underlying these methods, scientific evidence, and the current scientific questions that psychophysiological methods are used to answer.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4656. Seminar in Biological Psychology. (4 Hours)
Offers intensive study, discussion, and practice in lab studies of physiological variables. Covers evolution of the nervous system, neurological disorders, motivation and emotion, sleep, attention and perception, learning, and memory.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4658. Seminar in Psycholinguistics. (4 Hours)
Offers intensive study and discussion of issues in the psychology of language. Specific topics vary by semester.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); (PSYC 3464 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3466 with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4660. Seminar in Cognition. (4 Hours)
Offers intensive study and discussion of issues in cognitive psychology. Specific topics vary by semester.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); (PSYC 3464 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3466 with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4662. Seminar in Personality. (4 Hours)
Offers intensive study and discussion of issues in personality psychology. Allows students to examine selected topics and present their findings in class.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); PSYC 3400 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4664. Seminar in Social Psychology. (4 Hours)
Provides an in-depth analysis of specific topics in social psychology. Students read original research and theory papers involving these topics, make presentations, and write papers related to their readings.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); PSYC 3402 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4666. Seminar in Clinical Psychology. (4 Hours)
Focuses on psychotherapy: theory, methods, and outcome research. Provides an overview of clinical psychology: history, ethical and legal issues, the therapeutic relationship, cross-cultural counseling, the process of change. Students write and present papers on a topic of interest.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); PSYC 3406 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4668. Seminar in Sensation and Perception. (4 Hours)
Expects students to present in class on topics such as how perceptions are organized, formed, and modified by sensory, attentional, motivational, and cognitive factors, how our sensory systems extract information from the environment in a consistent and logical manner, despite large changes in environmental conditions, and how to account for this in physiological terms.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); PSYC 3452 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4674. Seminar in Cognitive Neuroscience. (4 Hours)
Offers intensive study and discussion of issues in cognitive neuroscience: the study of human cognitive processes, and their underlying neural substrates. Considers both theoretical and methodological issues, as well as applications to related fields of study. Specific topics vary by semester.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); (PSYC 3464 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3466 with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4676. Seminar in Developmental Psychology. (4 Hours)
Offers intensive study and discussion of issues in developmental psychology, the study of how social, emotional, cognitive, and other psychological processes emerge and change over different periods of the life span. Considers both theoretical and methodological issues, as well as applications to real-world contexts. Specific topics may vary by semester.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); PSYC 3404 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4678. Seminar in Social and Affective Neuroscience. (4 Hours)
Addresses fundamental questions about mind-brain mapping (e.g., distributed vs. modular processing, predictive coding, sensory integration, etc.), with a focus on social and affective processing. Offers intensive study and discusses issues in social and affective neuroscience. Considers both theoretical and methodological issues, as well as applications to real-world contexts. Specific topics may vary by semester.
Prerequisite(s): (ENVR 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2315 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- ); (PSYC 3400 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3402 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3404 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3406 with a minimum grade of D- ); (PSYC 3450 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3451 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3452 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3458 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3464 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 3466 with a minimum grade of D- )
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4965. Undergraduate Teaching Experience. (4 Hours)
Offers undergraduate teaching assistantships in psychology courses under the close direction of the course instructor. Assignments may include holding office hours and recitation/tutorial and review sessions, answering students’ emails, moderating discussion boards, helping to proctor exams and quizzes, (very) limited lecturing, or leading class discussions (only under faculty supervision). Requires minimum overall GPA of 3.333, and grade of A–or higher in the course for which the student will be an undergraduate teaching assistant; permission to enroll is further subject to the availability of an appropriate course assignment and instructor; prior arrangements must be made with the instructor at least one term before registration. May be repeated once, but may not be repeated for the same course.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
PSYC 4970. Junior/Senior Honors Project 1. (4 Hours)
Focuses on in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Combined with Junior/Senior Project 2 or college-defined equivalent for 8-credit honors project. May be repeated without limit.
PSYC 4971. Junior/Senior Honors Project 2. (4 Hours)
Focuses on second semester of in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. May be repeated without limit.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 4970 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Integration Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
PSYC 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
PSYC 4991. Directed Study Research. (4 Hours)
Offers research experience on a chosen topic under the direction of a faculty member. Research content and requisites depend on the instructor. Prior arrangements must be made with the faculty member at least one term before registration. May be repeated up to three times.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
PSYC 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work on a chosen topic under the direction of a faculty member. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated without limit.
PSYC 4994. Internship in Psychology. (4 Hours)
Offers supervised experiences in the application of psychology in instructional, clinical, or other applied settings. May be repeated without limit.
Attribute(s): NUpath Integration Experience
PSYC 5100. Proseminar in Psycholinguistics. (3 Hours)
Serves as first-level graduate course in psycholinguistics, focusing on theoretical, experimental, and methodological issues. Includes faculty lectures, student presentations, and discussions. Requires permission of instructor for students who are not enrolled in the PhD program in psychology. May be repeated without limit.
PSYC 5110. Cognitive Science. (3 Hours)
Serves as a first-level graduate course in cognitive sciences, focusing on theoretical, experimental, and methodological issues. Presents the foundation of terminology, theoretical questions, and research skills in brain and cognition to support future study. Introduces strategies for reading, evaluating, and discussing papers dealing with the brain and cognition. Provides a working vocabulary of cognitive neuroscience approaches and neuroanatomy, along with tools for honing knowledge to match specific research interests. Requires permission of instructor for students who are not enrolled in the PhD program in psychology.
PSYC 5115. Colloquium. (3 Hours)
Aims to prepare students to be active and informed participants in presented talks from invited speakers from across a wide breadth of psychology and behavioral neuroscience fields. Requires participation in weekly departmental seminars. Faculty members who host weekly visiting seminar speakers lead students in discussions about each upcoming speaker to foster critical thinking about each research topic and to prepare questions and ideas for the invited speaker. Covers topics related to giving a successful scientific talk and communicating science in general. No writing component. May be repeated once.
PSYC 5120. Proseminar in Sensation. (3 Hours)
Serves as first-level graduate course in sensation, focusing on theoretical, experimental, and methodological issues. Includes faculty lectures, student presentations, and discussion. Requires permission of instructor for students who are not enrolled in the PhD program in psychology. May be repeated without limit.
PSYC 5130. Proseminar in Perception. (3 Hours)
Serves as first-level graduate course in perception, focusing on theoretical, experimental, and methodological issues. Includes faculty lectures, student presentations, and discussion. Requires permission of instructor for students who are not enrolled in the PhD program in psychology. May be repeated without limit.
PSYC 5140. Proseminar in Biology of Behavior. (3 Hours)
Serves as first-level graduate course in the biological basis of behavior, focusing on theoretical, experimental, and methodological issues. Includes faculty lectures, student presentations, and discussion. Requires permission of instructor for students who are not enrolled in the PhD program in psychology. May be repeated without limit.
PSYC 5150. Proseminar in Clinical Neuroscience. (3 Hours)
Serves as first-level graduate course in clinical neuroscience, focusing on theoretical, experimental, and methodological issues. Includes faculty lectures, student presentations, and discussion. Requires permission of instructor for students who are not enrolled in the PhD program in psychology. May be repeated without limit.
PSYC 5170. Social and Affective Science. (3 Hours)
Serves as a first-level graduate course in social and affective sciences. Focuses on theoretical, experimental, and methodological issues. Includes faculty lectures, student presentations, and discussion. Requires permission of instructor for students who are not enrolled in the PhD program in psychology.
PSYC 5180. Quantitative Methods 1. (3 Hours)
Presents first course in a two-course sequence that surveys a variety of quantitative methods used in experimental psychology. Requires permission of instructor for students who are not enrolled in the PhD program in psychology.
PSYC 5181. Quantitative Methods 2. (3 Hours)
Continues PSYC 5180. Presents second course in a two-course sequence that surveys a variety of quantitative methods used in experimental psychology. Requires permission of instructor for students who are not enrolled in the PhD program in psychology.
Prerequisite(s): PSYC 5180 with a minimum grade of C- or PSYC 5180 with a minimum grade of D-
PSYC 5301. Research Methods in Psychological Sciences. (3 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to obtain an in-depth understanding of one of various clinical and preclinical methods in neuroscience, psychophysiology, and psychology, with the focus alternating with the expertise of each instructor. Pairs hands-on learning with group discussions and presentations. Studies EEG, fMRI, computational modeling, neurobiological assays, animal behavioral assays, and psychophysics. May be repeated once.
PSYC 5410. Human Behavior and Sustainability. (3 Hours)
Offers a graduate-level introduction to the interdisciplinary field of human behavior and sustainability sciences. Explores an emerging literature embracing the complexity of social-ecological systems to better engage with the processes that reinforce unsustainable pathways and those that might be leveraged toward more sustainable futures. Focuses on understanding how observations about the psychology of individuals and collectives, and their relationship to institutions, have been theorized in relation to the environment and the approaches and methodologies used to test and describe such relationships.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/psychology/psychology-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Psychology Major Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introductory Course | ||
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Personal/Social Bases of Behavior (Area A) | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Personality | ||
Social Psychology | ||
Developmental Psychology | ||
Clinical Psychology and Mental Health | ||
Biological/Cognitive Bases of Behavior (Area B) | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Learning and Motivation | ||
or PSYC 3451 | Learning Principles and Behavior Analysis | |
Sensation and Perception | ||
Biological Psychology | ||
Psychology of Language | ||
Cognition | ||
Statistics | ||
Complete the following course. Students who receive transfer credit for the Advanced Placement Statistics exam may complete the 1 SH PSYC 2315 course (requires department permission): | 4-5 | |
Statistics in Psychological Research | ||
Psychology Seminar | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Seminar in Biological Psychology | ||
Seminar in Psycholinguistics | ||
Seminar in Cognition | ||
Seminar in Personality | ||
Seminar in Social Psychology | ||
Seminar in Clinical Psychology | ||
Seminar in Sensation and Perception | ||
Seminar in Cognitive Neuroscience | ||
Seminar in Developmental Psychology | ||
Seminar in Social and Affective Neuroscience | ||
Lab Requirement | ||
Complete two psychology lab courses OR one psychology lab course and one psychology directed study research or honors thesis: | 8 | |
Lab | ||
Laboratory in Research Design | ||
Laboratory in Learning and Motivation | ||
Laboratory in Biological Psychology | ||
Laboratory in Psycholinguistics | ||
Laboratory in Cognition | ||
Laboratory in Social Psychology | ||
Laboratory in Personality | ||
Laboratory in Sensation and Perception | ||
Laboratory in Affective Science | ||
Laboratory in Life-Span Emotional Development | ||
Laboratory in Developmental Psychology | ||
Directed Study Research or Honors Thesis | ||
Directed Study Research | ||
or PSYC 4971 | Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 |
Psychology Required Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete five PSYC courses. | 20 |
Supporting Courses
Interdisciplinary Cluster
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete three of the following courses. Choose from one group only. Students may petition to create their own interdisciplinary cluster: | 11-15 | |
Educational Psychology | ||
Education in the Community | ||
Culture, Equity, Power, and Influence | ||
Child and Adolescent Development, Learning, and Teaching | ||
Inclusion, Equity, and Diversity | ||
Society and Psychology | ||
Peoples and Cultures | ||
Gender and Sexuality: A Cross-Cultural Perspective | ||
Religion and Modernity | ||
Language and Culture | ||
Sociology of the Family | ||
Sociology of Gender | ||
Drugs and Society | ||
Forensic Psychology | ||
Criminology | ||
Youth Crime and Justice | ||
Gender, Crime, and Justice | ||
Race, Crime, and Justice | ||
Cross-Cultural Psychology | ||
Peoples and Cultures | ||
Language and Culture | ||
Sociolinguistics | ||
Expressive Therapy | ||
Required Courses | ||
Abstract Drawing 1 | ||
Music Therapy 1 | ||
Introduction to Acting | ||
1Additional Art Course | ||
Complete one of the following courses or course combinations concurrently with ARTF 1210: | ||
Representational Drawing | ||
Elements of Visual Composition (with optional ARTF 1221) | ||
Making with Form and Materials and Making with Form and Materials Tools | ||
Making with Video, Sound, and Animation and Making with Video, Sound, and Animation Tools | ||
Designing Interactive Experiences and Designing Interactive Experiences Tools | ||
Counseling and Applied Psychology | ||
Counseling Theories and Practice | ||
Mental Health and Counseling | ||
Counseling in Human Services | ||
Child Intervention and Treatment | ||
Artificial Intelligence and Information Science | ||
Theory of Computation | ||
Artificial Intelligence | ||
Natural Language Processing | ||
Principles of Information Science | ||
Human Computer Interaction | ||
Language | ||
ASL Linguistics | ||
Linguistic Analysis | ||
Language and Culture | ||
Phonology | ||
Sociolinguistics | ||
Syntax | ||
Semantics | ||
Language and Gender | ||
Speech and Hearing Science | ||
Human Factors | ||
Principles of Information Science | ||
Information System Design and Development | ||
Information Retrieval | ||
Human Computer Interaction | ||
Empirical Research Methods | ||
Child and Adolescent Abnormal Psychology | ||
Youth Crime and Justice | ||
Child Intervention and Treatment | ||
Drugs and Society | ||
Human Resource Management and Business | ||
Cultural Aspects of International Business | ||
Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies | ||
Introduction to Marketing | ||
Organizational Behavior | ||
Business, Ethics, and Human Rights | ||
The Twenty-First-Century Workplace | ||
Philosophy of Science and Psychology | ||
Science and Pseudoscience | ||
Introduction to Logic | ||
Philosophy of Science | ||
Philosophy of Mind | ||
Ethics | ||
Comparative Ethics | ||
Moral and Social Problems in Healthcare | ||
Business, Ethics, and Human Rights | ||
Environmental Ethics | ||
Moral Philosophy | ||
Biological and Chemical Sciences | ||
General Biology 1 and Lab for BIOL 1111 | ||
General Biology 2 and Lab for BIOL 1113 | ||
Microbes and Society | ||
The Human Organism | ||
Biology of Human Reproduction | ||
Integrated Anatomy and Physiology 1 and Lab for BIOL 2217 | ||
Integrated Anatomy and Physiology 2 and Lab for BIOL 2219 | ||
Neurobiology | ||
Evolution | ||
General Chemistry for Health Sciences and Lab for CHEM 1101 | ||
General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 | ||
General Chemistry 1 and Lab for CHEM 1211 | ||
General Chemistry 2 and Lab for CHEM 1214 | ||
Ecology | ||
Physical Sciences and Mathematics | ||
In addition to the following courses, any math skill course may be used with advisor approval: | ||
Environmental Science | ||
Global Climate Change | ||
Dynamic Earth | ||
Earth's Changing Cycles | ||
Geophysics | ||
Statistics and Stochastic Processes | ||
or any PHYS course | ||
Health and Wellness | ||
Microbes and Society | ||
Biology and Society | ||
The Human Organism | ||
Biology of Human Reproduction | ||
Integrated Anatomy and Physiology 1 and Lab for BIOL 2217 | ||
Health Communication | ||
Human Nutrition | ||
Contemporary Issues in Nutrition | ||
Wellness | ||
Moral and Social Problems in Healthcare | ||
Environmental Ethics | ||
The Ethics of Food | ||
Introduction to Sports Medicine | ||
Drugs and Society | ||
Communication, Culture, and Society | ||
Sex, Relationships, and Communication | ||
Communication in a Digital Age | ||
Social Networks | ||
Communication and Gender | ||
Free Speech in Cyberspace | ||
Interpersonal Communication | ||
Communication and Inclusion | ||
Nonverbal Social Interaction | ||
Youth and Communication Technology | ||
Online Communities | ||
Language and Culture | ||
Sociolinguistics | ||
Language and Gender | ||
Social Work Track | ||
Social Change and Human Services | ||
Race, Identity, Social Change, and Empowerment | ||
Research Methods for Human Services | ||
Social Policy | ||
Mindfulness | ||
Introduction to Mindfulness | ||
Personal Behavior Change | ||
The Yoga Tradition in Nepal: Philosophy, Methods, and Practice | ||
The Yoga Tradition: Philosophy, Methods, and Practice | ||
Relationships in College | ||
Mindfulness: Theory and Practice | ||
Mindfulness in Mental Health | ||
Comparative Ethics | ||
Selling Spirituality | ||
Hinduism, Buddhism, and Beyond | ||
Chinese Philosophy and Religion | ||
Japanese Buddhism |
Mathematics Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following courses: | 4 | |
Discrete Structures | ||
Interactive Mathematics | ||
Mathematical Thinking | ||
Calculus for Business and Economics | ||
Calculus 1 | ||
Calculus 2 | ||
Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 1 | ||
Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 2 | ||
Intensive Calculus for Engineers | ||
Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | ||
Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering |
BS in Psychology Major Credit Requirements
Complete 68 semester hours in the major. A maximum of 34 semester hours of transfer credit is allowed in the major. Note: Up to 12 semester hours of psychology-related electives will count toward the major only after the “Interdisciplinary Cluster” section has been completed.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Plans of Study
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | PSYC area A elective | 4 | PSYC elective | 4 | Vacation | |
PSYC 1000 | 1 | PSYC elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1214 (or other PSYC elective) | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Math requirement | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
EESC 2000 | 1 | PSYC area A elective | 4 | Elective (or AP credit, etc.) | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PSYC 2320 | 4 | PSYC area B elective | 4 | Elective (or AP credit, etc.) | 4 | ||
PSYC area B elective | 4 | PSYC interdisciplinary cluster | 4 | ||||
PSYC interdisciplinary cluster | 4 | PSYC elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3315 | 4 | Elective (or AP credit, etc.) | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PSYC interdisciplinary cluster | 4 | Elective (or AP credit, etc.) | 4 | ||||
PSYC lab elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | ||
Co-op | 0 | PSYC lab elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
PSYC seminar elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | |||||
Total Hours: 130 |
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | PSYC area A elective | 4 | PSYC elective | 4 | Vacation | |
PSYC 1000 | 1 | PSYC elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1214 (or other PSYC elective) | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Math requirement | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
EESC 2000 | 1 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Elective (or AP credit, etc.) | 4 |
PSYC 2320 | 4 | Elective (or AP credit, etc.) | 4 | ||||
PSYC area B elective | 4 | ||||||
PSYC interdisciplinary cluster | 4 | ||||||
PSYC elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PSYC area A elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Elective (or AP credit, etc.) | 4 |
PSYC area B elective | 4 | Elective (or AP credit, etc.) | 4 | ||||
PSYC interdisciplinary cluster | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | ||
ENGW 3315 | 4 | PSYC lab elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
PSYC interdisciplinary cluster | 4 | PSYC seminar elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
PSYC lab | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 8 | |||||
Total Hours: 130 |
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | PSYC area A elective | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
PSYC 1000 | 1 | PSYC elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1214 (or other PSYC elective) | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Math requirement | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PSYC 2320 | 4 | EESC 2000 | 1 | Vacation | Co-op | 0 | |
PSYC area B elective | 4 | PSYC area A elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | PSYC area B elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | PSYC interdisciplinary cluster | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3315 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PSYC elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC lab elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | PSYC elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PSYC lab elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC interdisciplinary cluster | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | PSYC seminar elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC interdisciplinary cluster | 4 | ||||||
PSYC elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
Five Years, Three Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | PSYC area A elective | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
PSYC 1000 | 1 | PSYC elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1214 (or other PSYC elective) | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Math requirement | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
EESC 2000 | 1 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Elective | 4 |
PSYC 2320 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC area B elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 3315 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Elective | 4 |
PSYC area A elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC area B elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PSYC elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Vacation | |
PSYC lab elective | 4 | ||||||
PSYC interdisciplinary cluster | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
PSYC elective | 4 | PSYC seminar elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC lab elective | 4 | PSYC interdisciplinary cluster | 4 | ||||
PSYC interdisciplinary cluster | 4 | PSYC elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/psychology/psychology-design-bs/
Psychology Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Psychology Foundations | ||
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Statistics | ||
Complete the following course. Students who receive transfer credit for the Advanced Placement Statistics exam may complete the 1-semester-hour PSYC 2315 course (requires department permission). | 4-5 | |
Statistics in Psychological Research | ||
Psychology Area Courses | ||
PSYC 3402 | Social Psychology | 4 |
PSYC 3466 | Cognition | 4 |
Area A | 4 | |
Complete one of the following: | ||
Personality | ||
Developmental Psychology | ||
Clinical Psychology and Mental Health | ||
Area B | 4 | |
Complete one of the following: | ||
Learning and Motivation | ||
Biological Psychology | ||
Psychology of Language | ||
Psychology Laboratory | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-8 | |
One PSYC laboratory course numbered 4600–4649 | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 and Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
Directed Study Research | ||
Psychology Seminar (Capstone) | ||
Complete one PSYC seminar course numbered 4650–4699. | 4 | |
Psychology Elective | ||
Complete one PSYC course, numbered 2350–2399 or 3000+, and not counted elsewhere. | 4 |
Design Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Art + Design Fundamentals | ||
ARTF 1220 | Elements of Visual Composition (with optional ARTF 1221) | 2 |
Art + Design Fundamentals Electives | ||
Complete three of the following; note that some options include mandatory corequisites: | 6 | |
Representational Drawing | ||
Abstract Drawing | ||
Making with Form and Materials and Making with Form and Materials Tools | ||
Making with Video, Sound, and Animation and Making with Video, Sound, and Animation Tools | ||
Designing Interactive Experiences and Designing Interactive Experiences Tools | ||
Design Required | ||
ARTG 1001 and ARTG 1002 | Design Perspectives: An Introduction to Design in the World and Seminar for Design Perspectives | 4 |
ARTG 1270 and ARTG 1271 | Design: Process + Practices and Studio for Design: Process + Practices | 4 |
ARTG 1290 and ARTG 1291 | Typographic Systems and Studio for Typographic Systems | 4 |
Art + Design History Elective | ||
Complete any one ARTH course. | 4 | |
Art + Design Elective | ||
Complete any one ARTD, ARTE, ARTF (4SH), ARTG, ARTH, ARTS, or GAME course as long as prerequisites have been met. | 4 | |
If ARTG 5000 Topics in Design is completed more than once, the additional completions may be allowed toward the electives. | ||
Degree Project | ||
ARTG 4550 | Design Degree Project | 4 |
Design Option
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following options: | 8-9 | |
Experience Design Option | ||
Experience Design Principles | ||
Topics In Experience Design Inquiry | ||
Graphic Design Option | ||
Graphic Design Principles | ||
Topics In Graphic Design Inquiry | ||
Information Design Option | ||
Information Design Principles | ||
Topics in Information Design Inquiry | ||
Interaction Design Option | ||
Interaction Design Principles and Interaction Design Principles Tools | ||
Topics In Interaction Design Inquiry |
Integrative Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ARTG 5310 | Visual Cognition | 4 |
PSYC 3452 | Sensation and Perception | 4 |
Psychology and Design Major Credit Requirement
Complete 84 semester hours in the major.
Program Requirement
130 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ARTF 1000 or PSYC 1000 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | Elective/NUpath | 4 | Elective/NUpath | 4 |
ARTF 1220 (with optional ARTF 1221) | 2 | ARTG 1270 and ARTG 1271 | 4 | ARTF elective | 2 | Elective/NUpath | 4 |
ARTF elective | 2 | ARTG 1290 and ARTG 1291 | 4 | ARTF elective | 2 | ||
ARTG 1001 and ARTG 1002 | 4 | PSYC 2320 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1215 | 4 | ||||||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
EEAM 2000 | 1 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Elective/NUpath | 4 |
PSYC 3452 | 4 | Elective/NUpath | 4 | ||||
PSYC 3466 | 4 | ||||||
ARTG 2262 and ARTG 2263 | 4 | ||||||
Design option course 1 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ARTG 5310 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Psychology area A or area B or elective/NUpath | 4 |
PSYC 3402 | 4 | Elective/NUpath | 4 | ||||
Design option course 2 | 4 | ||||||
Psychology area B or elective/NUpath | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Psychology laboratory | 4 | Psychology seminar | 4 | ||||
Psychology area A or elective/NUpath | 4 | ARTG 4550 | 4 | ||||
ARTH elective | 4 | Psychology elective | 4 | ||||
Elective/NUpath | 4 | Elective/NUpath | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/psychology/psychology-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Note: A maximum of two courses (or 8 semester hours) of transfer credit may count toward the minor. This minor is not available to students majoring in behavioral neuroscience or in any combined major that involves psychology. Courses taken pass/fail and receiving an S grade may not be used toward the minor.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Course | ||
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Personal/Social Bases of Behavior (Area A) | ||
Transfer courses are not permitted to fulfill the Area A requirement. | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Personality | ||
Social Psychology | ||
Developmental Psychology | ||
Clinical Psychology and Mental Health | ||
Biological/Cognitive Bases of Behavior (Area B) | ||
Transfer courses are not permitted to fulfill the Area B requirement. | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Learning and Motivation | ||
Sensation and Perception | ||
Biological Psychology | ||
Psychology of Language | ||
Cognition |
Elective Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two PSYC courses. | 8 |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/psychology/psychology-music-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
NUpath requirements Differences and Diversity (DD), Ethical Reasoning (ER), and Advanced Writing in the Disciplines (WD) are not explicitly satisfied by the required courses. Differences and Diversity (DD) and Ethical Reasoning (ER) can be met through Music in Context. Students are responsible for satisfying any of these requirements not met within the major.
Psychology Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
PSYC 3452 | Sensation and Perception | 4 |
PSYC 3458 | Biological Psychology | 4 |
PSYC 3464 | Psychology of Language | 4 |
PSYC 3466 | Cognition | 4 |
Statistics | ||
Students who receive transfer credit for the Advanced Placement Statistics exam may complete the 1-semester-hour PSYC 2315 course (requires department permission); otherwise, complete the following: | 4-5 | |
Statistics in Psychological Research | ||
Required Lab | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Laboratory in Research Design | ||
Laboratory in Learning and Motivation | ||
Laboratory in Biological Psychology | ||
Laboratory in Psycholinguistics | ||
Laboratory in Cognition | ||
Laboratory in Social Psychology | ||
Laboratory in Personality | ||
Laboratory in Sensation and Perception | ||
Laboratory in Affective Science | ||
Laboratory in Life-Span Emotional Development | ||
Laboratory in Developmental Psychology | ||
Required Seminar | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Seminar in Biological Psychology | ||
Seminar in Psycholinguistics | ||
Seminar in Cognition | ||
Seminar in Personality | ||
Seminar in Social Psychology | ||
Seminar in Clinical Psychology | ||
Seminar in Sensation and Perception | ||
Seminar in Cognitive Neuroscience | ||
Seminar in Developmental Psychology | ||
Psychology Electives | ||
Complete two PSYC courses not used to fulfill requirements above. | 8 |
Music Theory Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Music Theory Placement | ||
All students must take a music placement exam. Students who place into MUSC 1201 will substitute a general elective course for the following course: | ||
MUSC 1119 | Fundamentals of Western Music Theory | 4 |
Required Courses | ||
MUSC 1201 | Music Theory 1 | 4 |
MUSC 1202 | Music Theory 2 | 4 |
Music in Context
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Music in Everyday Life | ||
Music in Everyday Life and Lab for MUSC 1002 | ||
Creative Category | ||
Complete one of the following 4-semester-hour courses, or complete four 1-semester-hour ensembles and/or lessons from the list: | 4 | |
Coursework Option | ||
Making a Musical: Analysis, Craft, and Creation 1 | ||
Jazz Improvisation | ||
Conducting | ||
Introduction to Songwriting | ||
Music Production and Recording 1 | ||
Introduction to Music Technology | ||
Introduction to Composition | ||
Sound Design | ||
Ensembles and Lessons Option | ||
Music Lessons 1 | ||
Music Lessons 2 | ||
Chorus | ||
Concert Band | ||
Orchestra | ||
Wind Ensemble | ||
Jazz Ensemble | ||
Rock Ensemble | ||
Blues/Rock Ensemble | ||
Create Your Own Music | ||
Chamber Ensemble | ||
Jazz Choir and Combo | ||
World Music Ensemble | ||
Fusion Ensemble | ||
Pep Band | ||
Contemporary/Popular Music or Global Music/Ethnomusicology Category | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Black Popular Music | ||
Making a Musical: Analysis, Craft, and Creation 1 | ||
Popular Music Since 1945 | ||
Topics in American Music | ||
Topics in Global Music Cultures | ||
Punk Rock | ||
40,000 Years of Music Technology | ||
Musical Communities of Boston | ||
Topics in Musical Communities | ||
The Festival Experience | ||
Divas, DJs, and Double Standards | ||
Music, Sound, and the Screen | ||
The World of Choral Music | ||
Sounding Human | ||
Music and the Racial Imagination | ||
Sound and the Sacred | ||
Ethnography and the Arts | ||
Music and Social Justice | ||
Global Music Industries in Context | ||
Hip Hop in the Music Industry |
- 1
MUSC 2150 can be used to meet either the creative or the contemporary/popular music or global music/ethnomusicology requirement but not both.
Music Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
MUSC 2350 | Acoustics and Psychoacoustics of Music | 4 |
or INAM 3200 | Creative Cognition | |
MUSC 3300 | Music Perception and Cognition | 4 |
Capstone | ||
MUSC 4510 | Music and the Brain Research | 4 |
Music Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two courses from MUSC, MUSI, or MUST not used to fulfill the requirements above. | 8 |
Other Requirements Outside Major
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op | 1 |
or EEAM 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op | |
ENGW 1111 | First-Year Writing | 4 |
PSYC 1000 | Psychology at Northeastern | 1 |
or MUSC 1000 | Music at Northeastern | |
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Interactive Mathematics | ||
Mathematical Thinking | ||
Calculus 1 |
Bridge/Integrative Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Note: MUSC 3300 is already required above. | ||
Music Perception and Cognition |
BS Psychology/Music Major
Complete 76 semester hours in the major.
Music Major Grade Requirement
Students must maintain at least a 2.667 grade-point average (B– average) in the requirements of the music half of the combined major and also complete all required music courses with grades of at least C. Students who fail to meet the above standards will be placed on departmental probation; those who remain on probation for two consecutive semesters will be dropped from the major.
Program Requirement
130 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | MATH 1213 | 4 | PSYC 3466 | 4 | Open elective | 4 |
PSYC 1101 | 4 | MUSC 1201 | 4 | Music elective | 4 | Open elective | 4 |
MUSC 1000 or PSYC 1000 | 1 | PSYC 2320 | 4 | ||||
MUSC 1001 or 1002 and 1003 | 4 | NUpath ER | 4 | ||||
MUSC 1119 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MUSC 1202 | 4 | EESC 2000 or EEAM 2000 | 1 | PSYC elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
MUSC 3300 | 4 | MUSC 2350 or INAM 3200 | 4 | Open elective | 4 | ||
PSYC 3458 | 4 | PSYC 3464 | 4 | ||||
Open elective | 4 | Contemporary/ethno course | 4 | ||||
NUpath DD | 4 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | MUSC 4510 | 4 | PSYC lab | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
PSYC 3452 | 4 | PSYC elective | 4 | ||||
Creative music course | 4 | ||||||
Open elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | Music elective | 4 | ||||
NUpath WD | 4 | ||||||
PSYC seminar | 4 | ||||||
Open elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/science/psychology/psychology-theatre-bs/
This combined major educates students in psychology and theatre and the interface between the two disciplines. The scope and sequence of psychology courses provide students with a foundation in the interdisciplinary science of psychology, including such topics as cognition, psycholinguistics, perception, and the biological basis of behavior. The theatre curriculum provides deep knowledge of theatre that spans design, performance, and the production of innovative forms of theatre, including interactive media, computer graphics, human-computer interaction, and more.
Students completing this program of study should be able to understand how the two fields jointly contribute to explaining human behavior in the domain of theatre.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
NUpath requirements Differences and Diversity (DD) and Ethical Reasoning (ER) can be met through elective courses in PSYC or THTR. Students are responsible for satisfying any of these requirements not met within the major.
Psychology Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
PSYC 3400 | Personality | 4 |
PSYC 3404 | Developmental Psychology | 4 |
PSYC 3450 | Learning and Motivation | 4 |
PSYC 3452 | Sensation and Perception | 4 |
PSYC 3464 | Psychology of Language | 4 |
Statistics | ||
Complete the following course. Students who receive transfer credit for the Advanced Placement Statistics exam may complete the 1 SH PSYC 2315 course (requires department permission). | 4-5 | |
Statistics in Psychological Research | ||
Psychology Lab Course | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Laboratory in Research Design | ||
Laboratory in Learning and Motivation | ||
Laboratory in Biological Psychology | ||
Laboratory in Psycholinguistics | ||
Laboratory in Cognition | ||
Laboratory in Social Psychology | ||
Laboratory in Personality | ||
Laboratory in Sensation and Perception | ||
Laboratory in Affective Science | ||
Laboratory in Life-Span Emotional Development | ||
Laboratory in Developmental Psychology | ||
Laboratory in Psychophysiology | ||
Psychology Seminar | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Seminar in Biological Psychology | ||
Seminar in Psycholinguistics | ||
Seminar in Cognition | ||
Seminar in Personality | ||
Seminar in Social Psychology | ||
Seminar in Clinical Psychology | ||
Seminar in Sensation and Perception | ||
Seminar in Cognitive Neuroscience | ||
Seminar in Developmental Psychology | ||
Psychology Electives | ||
Complete two additional 4-semester-hour PSYC courses not used to fulfill requirements above from the following: | 8 | |
PSYC 1000–PSYC 5999 |
Theatre Requirements
A minimum grade of C is required in all THTR & INAM courses.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Foundational Courses | ||
INAM 2000 | Ethics in Creativity | 4 |
THTR 1101 | Introduction to Theatre | 4 |
THTR 1120 | Acting 1 | 4 |
THTR 1131 | Introduction to Technical Theatre | 4 |
THTR 1270 | Introduction to Theatrical Design | 4 |
THTR 3325 | Dramaturgical Inquiry | 4 |
Making Theatre | ||
THTR 1100 | Production Experience 1 | 1 |
THTR 2000 | Production Experience 2 | 1 |
Texts, Community, & Social Context | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
The Politics of Narrative in Theatre and The Politics of Narrative in Theatre Seminar | ||
Activism and Performance | ||
Race, Power, and Performance | ||
Documentary Theatre Project | ||
The American Black Theatre Experience | ||
Theatre and Society | ||
Breaking the Glass Ceiling: Women in Theatre | ||
Topics in Theatre History and Culture | ||
Creative Storytelling for Social Engagement | ||
Queer Theatre and Performance | ||
Performing Theory | ||
Electives | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
The American Black Theatre Experience | ||
History of Musical Theatre | ||
Playwriting | ||
Boston Theatre Experience | ||
Theatre and Society | ||
Acting 2 | ||
Acting for the Camera | ||
Viewpoints | ||
Lighting Design | ||
Costume Design | ||
Fashion Construction and Pattern Making | ||
Scenic Design | ||
Voice and Speech Training | ||
Topics in Theatre History and Culture | ||
Topics in Dance | ||
Creative Storytelling for Social Engagement | ||
Queer Theatre and Performance | ||
Stage Combat | ||
Directing for the Stage | ||
Performing Theory | ||
Mixed-Media Performance Lab | ||
Topics in Performance Studies | ||
Advanced Acting for the Camera | ||
Devised Theatre Project | ||
Acting 3 | ||
Design for Immersive Performance |
Integrative Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
INAM 3200 | Creative Cognition | 4 |
THTR 4702 | Capstone: Creative Practice Research Project | 4 |
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
PSYC 1000 | Psychology at Northeastern | 1 |
or THTR 1000 | Theatre at Northeastern | |
Mathematics | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Interactive Mathematics | ||
Mathematical Thinking | ||
Calculus 1 | ||
Complete one course from approved NUpath DD options. 1 | 4 | |
Complete one course from approved NUpath ER options. 2 | 4 | |
Complete first-year writing course. | 4 | |
Complete NUpath Integrating Knowledge Through Experience co-op experience. | ||
Complete open electives to fulfill the total program hours. |
- 1
Some PYSC and THTR electives fill NUpath DD requirements.
- 2
Some PSYC and THTR electives fill NUpath ER requirements.
Program Requirements
131 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study: 4 Years, 2 Co-ops
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | MATH 1213 | 4 | PSYC 3400 | 4 | Open elective | 4 |
PSYC 1000 or THTR 1000 | 1 | PSYC 3466 | 4 | Nupath DD | 4 | Open elective | 4 |
PSYC 1101 | 4 | THTR 1270 | 4 | ||||
THTR 1101 | 4 | THTR 1131 | 4 | ||||
THTR 1100 | 1 | ||||||
THTR 1120 | 4 | ||||||
18 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PSYC 2320 | 4 | EESC 2000 or EEAM 2000 | 1 | PSYC elective | 4 | Co-op | |
PSYC 3450 | 4 | PSYC 3404 | 4 | Open elective | 4 | ||
THTR 2000 | 1 | PSYC 3464 | 4 | ||||
THTR 3325 | 4 | THTR Elective | 4 | ||||
THTR Texts, Community, & Social Context Course | 4 | Nupath ER | 4 | ||||
17 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | INAM 2000 | 4 | PSYC lab | 4 | Co-op | ||
INAM 3200 | 4 | PSYC elective | 4 | ||||
PSYC 3452 | 4 | ||||||
THTR Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | THTR 4702 | 4 | |||||
PSYC seminar | 4 | ||||||
Open Elective | 4 | ||||||
Open elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 132 |
---page-end---
