Website URL: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/

Links Visited:
/undergraduate/business/, /undergraduate/business/accelerated-bachelor-graduate-degree-programs/, /undergraduate/business/business-administration-bsba/, /undergraduate/business/business-administration-combined-majors/, /undergraduate/business/business-administration-combined-majors/business-administration-communication-studies-bs/, /undergraduate/business/business-administration-combined-majors/business-administration-criminal-justice-bs/, /undergraduate/business/business-administration-combined-majors/business-administration-psychology-bs/, /undergraduate/business/business-administration-combined-majors/business-administration-public-health-bs/, /undergraduate/business/business-administration-combined-majors/design-bs/, /undergraduate/business/business-administration-law-bs/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/accounting-advisory-services/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/accounting/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/brand-management/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/business-analytics/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/corporate-innovation/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/entrepreneurial-startups/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/family-business/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/finance/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/fintech/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/global-business-strategy/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/healthcare-management-consulting/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/international-business/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/management-information-systems/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/management/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/marketing-analytics/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/marketing/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/social-innovation-entrepreneurship/, /undergraduate/business/concentrations/supply-chain-management/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/accounting-advisory-services-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/brand-management-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/business-administration-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/business-analytics-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/consulting-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/corporate-innovation-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/emerging-markets-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/entrepreneurial-startups-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/family-business-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/management-information-systems-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/managing-human-capital-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/marketing-analytics-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/marketing-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/social-innovation-entrepreneurship-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/strategy-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/supply-chain-management-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/sustainable-business-practices-minor/, /undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-studies-bs/, /undergraduate/business/international-business-bsib/

Total Links: 49

Content:
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/
Accounting
Kimberly Moreno, PhD
Professor and Group Chair
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Samina Karim, PhD
Professor and Group Chair
Finance
Nicole Boyson, PhD
Professor and Group Chair
International Business and Strategy
Gary J. Young, PhD
Professor and Group Chair
Management and Organizational Development
John C. Dencker, PhD
Professor and Group Chair
Marketing
Felicia Lassk, PhD
Associate Professor and Group Chair
Supply Chain and Information Management
Gilbert Nyaga, PhD
Associate Professor and Group Chair
- Accounting Courses
- Business Administration Courses
- Corporate Innovation Courses
- Entrepreneurship and Innovation Courses
- Finance and Insurance Courses
- International Business Courses
- Management Courses
- Management Information Systems
- Management Science Courses
- Marketing Courses
- Organizational Behavior Courses
- Supply Chain Management Courses
- Strategy Courses
Accounting Courses
ACCT 1201. Financial Accounting and Reporting. (4 Hours)
Covers the basic concepts underlying financial statements and the accounting principles followed in the preparation of the balance sheet, the income statement, and the statement of cash flows. Offers students an opportunity to become familiar with accounting terminology and methods designed to enable them to interpret, analyze, and evaluate published corporate financial reports. Wherever appropriate, the course relates current economic, business, and global events to accounting issues. Analyzes how financial reporting concepts affect the behavior of investors, creditors, and other external users. Emphasizes the importance of ethics in financial reporting.
ACCT 1209. Financial Accounting and Reporting. (4 Hours)
Does not count as credit for business majors. Counts as ACCT 1201 for business minors only. Requires second-semester-freshman standing or above.
ACCT 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ACCT 2301. Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the development and analysis of information for managerial decision making within the firm. Students take a managerial or advisory perspective to conduct cost and profit analyses that support the strategic goals of an organization to manage firm profitability. Topics include costing products, services, and customers; understanding cost behavior; cost-volume-profit analysis; relevant cost analysis for decision making; budgeting; variance analysis; and performance evaluation. Covers key knowledge and tasks that managers, consultants, and advisors need to understand to help a business run successfully.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 1201 with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 1209 with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 1202 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
ACCT 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ACCT 3304. Business Law and Professional Ethics. (4 Hours)
Covers business law, professional code of conduct, and the importance of ethical behavior in today’s business environment. Examines legal aspects of commercial transactions and business relationships. Specifically, laws relating to contracts and sale of goods under the Uniform Commercial Code, agency law, and product liability law are discussed. May not be used as an accounting concentration elective.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 2302 with a minimum grade of D-
ACCT 3401. Financial Reporting and Analysis 1. (4 Hours)
Examines financial reporting concepts, emphasizing the link between them and financial statements. Focuses on both the preparation and interpretation of financial statements, with students also being introduced to basic tools in financial statement analysis, such as ratio and accounting analysis. Gives students the opportunity to understand how management decisions can influence reported income, asset, and liability values, and the importance of ethics when making accounting choices. Offers students the tools necessary to analyze the impact of alternative reporting decisions on financial statements. In addition to accounting majors, this course is ideal for students who wish to pursue careers in corporate finance, investment banking, investment management, or consulting.
Prerequisite(s): (ACCT 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 2302 with a minimum grade of D- )
ACCT 3402. Financial Reporting and Financial Statement Analysis. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the analysis, interpretation, reformulation, and prediction of financial data, including profitability analysis, operating versus nonoperating performance evaluation, credit analysis, reformulation of financial statements, forecasting of financial statements, analysis of intercorporate investments, cash flow analysis, accounting-based equity valuation, cash-based equity valuation, assessment of earnings quality and earnings management, and the assessment of intangible assets. Emphasizes the analysis and application of financial statement information for investment, credit, and management decisions, including advisory and consulting services. Considerable importance is placed on evaluation, interpretation, and use of accounting data for decision making. Such knowledge will enable one to participate in and manage important business decisions.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 2301 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 2302 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
ACCT 3403. Advisory Services and Emerging Accounting Systems. (4 Hours)
Provides an understanding of accounting information systems, with an emphasis on the role of technology and risk analysis. Information is critical for the effective and efficient management of any organization. Addresses concepts and applications relating to the design, analysis, and implementation of accounting systems. Examines the role of e-commerce and Internet-based technologies, including their implications for ethics and privacy, throughout the course.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 2302 with a minimum grade of D-
ACCT 3416. Strategic Cost Analysis for Decision Making. (4 Hours)
Develops understanding of the critical role of cost measurement and management in business decisions and in managing a firm’s profitability. Focuses on the strategic use of cost information for planning and control, as well as costing products, services, and customers. Emphasizes the role of management accountants as integral members of decision-making teams and as consultants to senior management. Studies alternate ways of measuring costs to meet different management objectives, the role of budgeting as a planning and management tool, the use of cost analysis as a control tool to help management meet short- and long-term profit objectives, and the importance of ethics in achieving all of these objectives. In addition to accounting majors, this course is ideal for students who wish to pursue a career in finance, general management, operations management, supply chain management, or entrepreneurship.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
ACCT 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ACCT 4412. Auditing and Other Assurance Services. (4 Hours)
Focuses on issues relevant to the public accounting profession and to internal auditors and managers in private or governmental organizations. Topics include legal liability and ethics, business and audit risk assessment, fraud detection and prevention procedures, planning of audit engagements, audit reports, other assurance services and reports, and the effect of information technology on the audit process. Offers students the opportunity to think critically about issues facing the auditing profession.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 3401 with a minimum grade of D-
ACCT 4414. Income Tax Determination and Planning. (4 Hours)
Provides a basic understanding of the structure of the federal income tax system. Taxes can have a significant impact on the viability of a number of personal finance and business decisions. Focuses on the individual taxpayer but also considers the implications for other entities. Tax return projects, research cases, and planning projects help demonstrate the potential impact of taxes on decision making.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
ACCT 4501. Financial Reporting and Analysis 2. (4 Hours)
Continues ACCT 3401 with a more extensive study of financial statements and the financial reporting rules underlying them. Advanced topics include bonds, pensions, leases, earnings per share, and earnings management. Introduces more advanced financial statement analysis tools. Offers students an opportunity to continue to gain the ethical awareness and the knowledge necessary to analyze the impact of alternative reporting decisions on financial statements.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 3401 with a minimum grade of D-
ACCT 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ACCT 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of faculty members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated up to four times for a maximum of 8 semester hours.
ACCT 5201. Foundations of Financial Reporting and Analysis 1. (3 Hours)
Covers the preparation and interpretation of financial statements. Focuses on the accounting for revenue and accounts receivable, cash, inventory, fixed and intangible assets, and investments. This is the first of a two-course sequence. Department permission required.
ACCT 5202. Foundations of Assurance Services. (3 Hours)
Studies the foundations of financial statement auditing. Focuses on the economic importance of auditing and factors relevant to an external auditing professional—audit planning, risk analysis, internal controls, and substantive testing. Includes the report and opinion of the auditor to management and stakeholders. Considers the ethical and legal responsibilities of the auditor. Department permission required.
ACCT 5203. Foundations of Income Tax Determination and Planning. (3 Hours)
Studies the foundations of the structure of the federal income tax system. Focuses on the individual taxpayer but also considers the implications for other entities. Demonstrates the potential impact of taxes on decision making using tax return projects, research cases, and planning projects. Department permission required.
ACCT 5204. Foundations of Financial Reporting and Analysis 2. (3 Hours)
Continues ACCT 5201 with a more extensive study of financial statements and the financial reporting rules underlying them. Advanced topics include bonds, pensions, leases, earnings per share, and earnings management. Introduces more advanced financial statement analysis tools. Offers students an opportunity to continue to develop the ethical awareness and obtain the knowledge necessary to analyze the impact of alternative reporting decisions on financial statements. Department permission required.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 5201 with a minimum grade of C-
ACCT 5220. Data Analytics for Advisory Services. (4 Hours)
Covers how data analytics is used to address business problems in the advisory services field. Examines how to master, test, analyze, and present data using Excel, Tableau, and SQL, among other data analytics tools. Emphasizes how to apply data analytics skills to managerial analytics, financial statement analytics, and tax analytics through advisory-type projects and labs.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 2302 with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 6207 with a minimum grade of C
ACCT 5230. Federal Tax Issues and Analysis. (3 Hours)
Gives a broad examination of tax authority as it guides action on tax issues including personal and business decisions. Examines the tax structure with a specific focus on the income and expenses for individual taxpayers. Emphasizes property transactions (including the calculation of basis, gain/loss, and the resulting tax treatment). Also incorporates tax planning and research related to these issues. Students who do not meet course prerequisites or restrictions may seek permission of instructor.
ACCT 5232. Estate and Gift Taxation. (3 Hours)
Focuses on the study of the taxes common to the transfer of property and wealth. Topics include gift tax deductions and exclusions, estate valuation, state tax deductions and exemptions, and tax rates. Also explores planning opportunities for these wealth transfer taxes. Students who do not meet course prerequisites or restrictions may seek permission of instructor.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 5230 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 5230 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- (Graduate) or ACCT 6230 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C-
ACCT 5255. Forensic Accounting. (3 Hours)
Offers an overview of occupational fraud and the methodology of fraud examination (i.e., obtaining documentary evidence, interviewing witnesses and potential suspects, writing investigative reports, testifying to findings, and forensic document examination). Offers students an opportunity to learn how to detect the most common types of occupational fraud, determining how each type of fraud is committed, and implementing prevention strategies. Students who do not meet course prerequisites or restrictions may seek permission of instructor.
ACCT 5256. Internal Auditing. (3 Hours)
Offers an overview of the internal audit function and explores the duties and responsibilities of the internal auditor. Offers students an opportunity to learn about the planning and organizing of an internal audit department and its coordination with an outside auditor as well as to learn to analyze how the design of an internal control auditing process can reduce risk exposure and enhance internal controls. Students who do not meet course prerequisites or restrictions may seek permission of instructor.
ACCT 5976. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of members of the department on chosen topics. May be repeated without limit.
Business Administration Courses
BUSN 1101. Applied Business Fundamentals. (4 Hours)
Blends theoretical principles with real-life application. Introduces the fundamentals of launching, growing, and managing a business venture in today’s dynamic and increasingly global environment. Examines concepts within multiple academic disciplines and from multiple perspectives—including marketing, technology, finance, accounting, information systems, people, and culture—and then applies them to new ventures within varied types of organizations. Offers students an opportunity to develop an entrepreneurial skill set and mind-set through the development of the critical thinking, innovative decision making, problem solving, and team building needed for any business, large or small.
Attribute(s): NUpath Difference/Diversity
BUSN 1102. Personal Skill Development for Business. (1 Hour)
Offers first-year students in the D’Amore-McKim School of Business (DMSB) an opportunity to achieve a better understanding of themselves as students and as future professionals. Explores self-analysis, leadership traits and styles, diversity and cultural awareness, professionalism, emotional intelligence, and ethics. Encourages students to draw connections among classroom education, extracurricular activities, and practical experiences and to identify how each component fits into the pursuit of their individual goals.
BUSN 1103. Professional Development for Business Co-op. (1 Hour)
Introduces students to the Cooperative Education Program and provides them with an opportunity to develop job-search and career-management skills. Offers students an opportunity to perform assessments of their workplace skills, interests, and values and discuss how they impact personal career choices. Students also have an opportunity to prepare a professional-style résumé, learn proper interviewing techniques, and gain an understanding of the opportunities available to them for co-op. Introduces career paths, choices, professional behaviors, work culture, and career decision making. Familiarizes students with workplace issues relative to their field of study and teaches them to use myNEU in the job-search and referral process. Presents co-op policies, procedures, and expectations of the Department of Cooperative Education and co-op employers.
BUSN 1106. Essentials of Business. (2 Hours)
Examines, in a "business boot camp" approach, how to cultivate a business mindset and develop critical business skills. Focuses on five major objectives: collaborating in teams, improving presentation and writing skills, fostering critical and entrepreneurial thinking, identifying the value of the interaction between different business disciplines, and introducing the critical business skills that are covered in more depth in students' future coursework.
Corequisite(s): PHIL 1106
BUSN 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BUSN 2963. Topics. (1,2 Hours)
Offers undergraduate students an opportunity to learn about timely issues, develop new skills, or explore areas of broad interest in an immersive, short-course format. Content and instructors vary by offering. May be repeated three times.
BUSN 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BUSN 2992. Research. (0 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to document student contributions to research projects or creative endeavors.
BUSN 3110. The Consulting Environment. (4 Hours)
Seeks to provide students with a framework and the fundamentals that allow them to understand the field of consulting in addition to a way of thinking for jobs in the consulting and other highly competitive careers. Focuses on the analysis of complex business situations using caselets and cases and provides frameworks as the basis for analysis and critical thinking in pressure situations. In addition, various articles, white papers, business case studies, and other consulting practices are shared with the students enrolled in the course as well as professionals with industry experience providing insights as visiting guest speakers.
BUSN 3501. Impact of AI on Business. (4 Hours)
Examines the impact of artificial intelligence on the core pillars of business—finance, sales, marketing, operations, engineering, and entrepreneurship. Offers students an opportunity to obtain a holistic understanding of how AI is reshaping these critical business domains and fostering the next wave of innovation. Discusses new business models, changes in go-to-market strategies for businesses, and the impact of AI-driven predictive analytics on finance. Explores new business possibilities enabled by AI and new approaches for using AI to complete traditional business activities.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or INNO 2301 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2201 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Natural/Designed World
BUSN 3944. Junior/Senior Internship. (1 Hour)
Offers students an opportunity for internship work. May be repeated up to two times.
BUSN 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BUSN 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
BUSN 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of faculty members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated up to three times for a maximum of 8 semester hours.
BUSN 4998. Research. (0 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to document student contributions to research projects or creative endeavors.
BUSN 5963. Topics. (1,2 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to learn about timely issues, develop new skills, or explore areas of broad interest in an immersive, short-course format. Content and instructors vary by offering. May be repeated three times.
BUSN 5964. Projects for Professionals. (0 Hours)
Offers students an applied project setting in which to apply their curricular learning. Working with a sponsor, students refine an applied research topic, perform research, develop recommendations that are shared with a partner sponsor, and create a plan for implementing their recommendations. Seeks to benefit students with a curriculum that supports the development of key business communication skills, project and client management skills, and frameworks for business analysis. Offers students an opportunity to learn from sponsor feedback, review 'lessons learned,' and incorporate suggestions from this review to improve and further develop their career development and professional plan.
BUSN 5965. Engaging with Industry Partners for Rising Professionals. (0 Hours)
Offers students an enhanced applied project setting in which to apply their curricular learning. Working with a partner sponsor, students refine an applied research topic, perform research, develop recommendations that are shared with the partner sponsor, and create a plan for implementing their recommendations. Curriculum supports students as they develop key business communication skills, project and client management skills, and frameworks for business analysis. Offers students an opportunity to learn from sponsor feedback, review lessons learned, and incorporate suggestions to improve and further hone their career development and professional plan. Career development opportunities through skill-building workshops, panels, and interview preparation are available. Partner-student interactions, including a culminating project presentation, allow partners to assess student potential for co-op, internship, or other employment opportunities with the partner. May be repeated two times.
Corporate Innovation Courses
INNO 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
INNO 2206. Global Social Enterprise. (4 Hours)
Designed to provide students with an in-depth exposure to entrepreneurship in the social sector, a rapidly growing segment of the global economy. Uses the case method to expose students to leading entrepreneurs who have developed and implemented business models to solve social problems such as extreme poverty, disease, illiteracy, and economic and social dislocation. Focuses on uniquely creative and driven people who have dedicated their lives to making a difference in the lives of others through values-based entrepreneurship.
INNO 2301. Innovation!. (4 Hours)
Designed for students across the entire University who wish to learn about innovation—the creative process, the different types of innovation, how innovations are created, and how innovations can be transformed into commercial reality either as new products or new services and either in startups, existing corporations, and nonprofit entities. Offers students an opportunity to obtain the fundamental insight needed to understand the innovation process and to become a player in it.
Attribute(s): NUpath Creative Express/Innov
INNO 2304. Industry Disruption and Corporate Transformation. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to learn several interrelated frameworks, concepts, and the language necessary to understand and analyze the origin and implications of industry disruptions and the difficulties experienced by incumbent firms as they seek to respond to the changes. Geared toward students who want to become innovation leaders in established companies and lead projects to create and launch new products or services, as well as students who plan to start their own businesses, particularly in high-technology sectors.
INNO 2414. Social Responsibility of Business in an Age of Inequality. (4 Hours)
Studies how businesses can be agents for social good, both locally and around the world. In an era of growing social and economic inequality both in the United States and globally, many “enlightened” businesses are reconsidering their roles in creating opportunity for disadvantaged or marginalized people and communities. Focuses on businesses that have the resources to invest in innovative social responsibility programs that address the impact of rising social and economic inequality. Considers the tension between the single-minded notion of maximizing profit for investors and serving a broader stakeholder community. The role of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial thinking plays a key role in student learning. This is an integrative course that includes areas such as business policy, governance, strategy, and decision making.
INNO 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
INNO 3308. Business Economic History of South Africa. (4 Hours)
Covers the economic history of modern South Africa through lectures from faculty at the partner university in South Africa and also from the Northeastern professor. Includes the country’s transition from apartheid to its present economic and political situation. Offers an opportunity to learn how South Africa has managed to overcome the struggles of its recent past and become one of the leading emerging economies of the world with a flourishing business community. Includes readings in and study of modern South African economics, law, history, politics, and culture.
Attribute(s): NUpath Societies/Institutions
INNO 3335. Product Innovation and Portfolio Management. (4 Hours)
Covers the intersection of project management, product development, and product portfolio management. Focuses on how large corporations develop, manage, and commercialize new products and services. Explores the unique attributes of different industries, such as internet platform-based firms, service-based firms, traditional manufacturing firms, and healthcare.
INNO 3520. Impact Investing and Social Finance. (4 Hours)
Explores impact investing, a transformative way to work with money to achieve a more inclusive and sustainable economy. Large investors are entering the world of impact investing, a rapidly emerging space where social and ecological effects of finance are championed over maximizing shareholder value. New investment vehicles such as social impact bonds and Web exchanges are changing the role of financing institutions to better serve the needs of low-income populations around the world. Applies interdisciplinary frameworks, tools, and cases, with hands-on teamwork and guest speakers, to critically examine the field. Offers students an opportunity to learn to develop and test concepts that integrate social responsibility, sustainability, and mutual accountability into current financial and economic systems while expanding social capital markets.
INNO 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
INNO 4225. Growth, Acquisitions, and Alliances. (4 Hours)
Analyzes whether, why, and how multibusiness corporations expand their operations into new business areas by questioning decisions to grow organically or through mechanisms such as acquisitions or alliances. Uses rigorous case-based discussions, expert readings, and major current events to discuss issues related to the choice of make, buy, or partner. Evaluates how these different corporate entrepreneurial strategies are used to help firms be more competitive and innovative.
INNO 4504. Integrated Studies in Corporate Innovation. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to experience corporate innovation in the classroom. Corporate innovation involves an enterprise experimenting with modern practices, technology, strategies, and opportunities to make its existing business model more competitive in the current marketplace. Students, as a class, represent a specific firm and tackle these corporate innovation challenges by adopting a culture that embraces new technology and actively seeks out ways to enhance the firm’s business model. With this proactive approach to corporate innovation, the students can visualize how enterprises can remain agile in the face of rising competition. The goal is to learn how corporations may even identify new opportunities before any startup has a chance to establish itself in the market.
Prerequisite(s): ENTR 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or INNO 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
INNO 4506. Integrated Studies in Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship. (4 Hours)
Focuses on a single developing region. Offers an opportunity to analyze the role of socially-driven entrepreneurship or “social impact enterprises” (SIEs) in alleviating poverty and its symptoms (for example, disease, illiteracy and chronic unemployment) in that country. Students have an opportunity to study the history, politics, and development of the country, with an emphasis on the role that private-sector initiatives have played and hope to play in addressing widespread poverty and with a focus on the failures and successes in economic and business development, economic growth, and poverty alleviation. Offers students an opportunity to develop a plan for a micro-investment strategy focused on these and/or similar businesses and organizations having a significant social impact in a developing country.
INNO 4983. Special Topics in Innovation. (4 Hours)
Examines areas of current interest and special topics in innovation. Employs a mix of lectures, cases, and projects. Topics depend on the instructor. May be repeated once.
INNO 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Courses
ENTR 1201. The Entrepreneurial Universe. (4 Hours)
Introduces students to the world of entrepreneurship. Covers the importance of entrepreneurship, the characteristics of entrepreneurs, and the entrepreneurship process. Describes entrepreneurship in its various forms, including startup growth ventures, entrepreneurship in small and medium enterprises, and microbusinesses.
ENTR 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ENTR 2215. Understanding Family Enterprise. (4 Hours)
Covers business, personal, and family issues found in family owned and managed companies, including management of the business, succession planning, entitlement, hiring, nonfamily employees, boards of advisors and directors, compensation, managing conflict, and communications. Designed for individuals who plan to enter into the management of a family business. Focuses on small and midsize firms with annual revenue of $5 million to $500 million.
ENTR 2225. Examining Family Business Dynamics Through Film. (4 Hours)
Examines various television shows and films to critically analyze and evaluate family relationships and family business dynamics. Discusses how these media reflect research and theories related to family businesses and how a "healthy family" helps to ensure a "healthy business." Observes examples of important family psychology concepts like sibling rivalry, entitlement, generational conflict, gender stereotypes, divorce, and spousal conflict. Also covers family business concepts like primogeniture, entitlement, succession, stagnation, wealth management, innovation, and gender discrimination. Emphasizes understanding family businesses as a source and consequence of diversity, using a global lens to showcase the similarities and differences among family firms around the world.
ENTR 2303. Marketing Strategies for Startups. (4 Hours)
Designed to help aspiring and serious entrepreneurship students to generate and evaluate robust marketing opportunities that may serve as the foundation for a new venture. Once a new opportunity has been vetted, students then have an opportunity to work on developing an entrepreneurial marketing plan. Covers methods for recognizing, discovering, or creating opportunities and validating those opportunities. One of the biggest challenges entrepreneurs face is coming up with the right opportunity for a new venture. This is an applied and experiential course involving field research. Two key deliverables are the opportunity assessment project and the entrepreneurial marketing plan.
ENTR 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ENTR 3217. Global Family Business Leadership. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to develop an understanding of the nuanced challenges facing entrepreneurial leaders in different cultural settings. While family businesses have been found to be both numerically and economically significant in most countries, these enterprises worldwide share many common issues. However, there are differences that emanate from specific institutional and cultural contexts. Understanding these differences and how they can affect leadership of a family business is increasingly important for stewards of family businesses in a global marketplace. Understanding the nature of international differences and appreciating the opportunities they offer for growth-oriented family business leaders is especially important as family businesses face unique barriers to international expansion. Required participation in spring break international field project.
ENTR 3220. International Entrepreneurship and Innovation Consulting. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to learn the principles and methods of consulting to growing companies and social enterprises abroad. This is done through a set of frameworks that focus on customer segmentation, product or service requirements, product-line and service strategy, business model design, and then internationalization strategy. Working in teams, students apply these frameworks to local companies in different business sectors and then prepare to apply them to client companies in their follow-on designated destination country. The final part of the course is preparation for the international field studies. This includes an introduction to effective methods for management consulting, including goal setting, team organization, and client management.
ENTR 3302. Managing and Growing the Family Business. (4 Hours)
Covers the issues and practices of successful multigeneration family businesses, including family values and culture, managing conflict, sibling rivalry, entitlement, hiring family and nonfamily employees, management of the family business, facilitating growth and change, and succession planning.
ENTR 3305. Business Model Design and Innovation. (4 Hours)
Considers dynamic entrepreneurial startup strategy from three perspectives: positioning of the venture within a dynamic, evolving industrial ecosystem that includes major companies, startups, and universities at various parts of the value-chain; different sources of innovation, including open innovation and industry-wide technology platforms; and business model design and implementation. Explores startup strategy from these perspectives using case studies and web-based company research projects and then asks students to develop their own strategy for a startup using the frameworks studied in class.
ENTR 3306. Global Entrepreneurship. (4 Hours)
Offers an opportunity to learn how entrepreneurs start, finance, and manage small businesses. Includes a field experience in South Africa, which involves identifying startups and small business for assistance in developing a business plan and seeking debt and/or equity financing. Students have an opportunity to consider the unique challenges encountered by entrepreneurs in economically disadvantaged communities and the additional challenges presented by South Africa’s history of racism and its current struggles with HIV/AIDS. Teaches students the basic concepts and tools associated with small business management, such as preparing financial models and a written business plan and investment presentation, with the goal that they can provide meaningful consulting assistance to township entrepreneurs.
Attribute(s): NUpath Creative Express/Innov
ENTR 3330. Design Thinking for Startups. (4 Hours)
Focuses on how small teams can develop new products and services in a startup environment by applying design thinking methodology. Applies the management concept of lean, agile development to concept creation, customer research, prototype development, and market validation. Offers students an opportunity to apply these skills to their own new product or service ideas and develop prototypes during the semester. Students are assessed not only for the quality of their ideas and project execution but also for their ability to work in small teams, with limited resources, as in a traditional startup experience.
ENTR 3401. Consulting Operations & Growth in SMEs. (4 Hours)
Offers teams of students an opportunity to consult with owners of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to develop project proposals and perform field casework specific to the needs of their SME clients. A highlight of this course is the SME consulting project. Through the project and course material, covers how to manage an SME from the day-to-day operations to strategic planning for growth. Exposes students to a variety of ways that an SME can achieve profitability and growth by generating lasting customer relationships, offering exemplary service, managing cash flow, implementing marketing strategies, and developing new and retooled products/services to reach new markets.
ENTR 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ENTR 4414. Bridging Conflict, Creating Diversity. (4 Hours)
Offers students a unique opportunity to serve as management and marketing consultants to early stage startups. Students work with entrepreneurs from diverse backgrounds (e.g., ethnic, social, religious, demographic) with experience operating a joint startup. Focuses on development of conflict resolution and leadership development skills that may be needed when cofounders of a startup come from diverse backgrounds. Students experience firsthand some of the challenges that entrepreneurs face, as well as support entrepreneurs’ efforts as problem solvers and collaborate to learn about entrepreneurship and marketing.
ENTR 4501. Integrated Studies in Entrepreneurial Startups. (4 Hours)
Designed as an advanced course for students who are studying entrepreneurship. Covers the issues raised when creating a technology venture that goes through multiple rounds of financing in order to become a successful large company. Topics include managing growth, writing business plans, raising money, and formulating exit strategies. Focuses on projects to obtain venture financing from venture capitalists, angels, and corporate investors.
ENTR 4503. Integrated Studies in Family Business. (4 Hours)
Designed for advanced students interested in launching a new venture or growing an existing business venture. Includes developing a business plan, strategy development for small- to medium-sized enterprises, sales forecasting, pro forma development, debt financing, and service developments. Sponsored by the Center for Family Business, focuses on obtaining a bank loan to start a business or to grow an existing small- to medium-sized venture.
ENTR 4505. Entrepreneurial Venture Growth Strategies. (4 Hours)
Focuses on helping technology ventures define and improve their strategies and tactics to achieve external funding. Studies frameworks for developing a growth-focused product and service strategy; techniques to grow and evolve a startup team, creating scalable business models; and early stage, successive-round venture finance. Working in teams, students must apply these methods to improve the business plans for early stage technology ventures and to create new financial projections and investor packages for early stage ventures, with specific assessments of customer focus and needs, intellectual property, new product-line and technology strategy, and business model design. Company projects include the fields of web services, IT, healthcare, and life sciences. The course is a practicum on how to get new venture concepts funded and scaled from the perspective of entrepreneur and investor.
ENTR 4510. Management Consulting Abroad. (4 Hours)
Offers an intensive field consulting program with local ventures in different countries. Designed to have students experience firsthand the challenges that entrepreneurs confront internationalizing products and services as well as core product management issues. In some cases, students work in cross-culture consulting teams with local stakeholders. Projects vary widely but typically involve assessment of current product line and services strategy, marketing approaches, and how these must be adapted for foreign markets, including the United States. This is a field consulting course with heavy client engagement, requiring detailed written and oral communications for the client.
Prerequisite(s): ENTR 2301 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or ENTR 3220 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Creative Express/Innov, NUpath Integration Experience
ENTR 4983. Special Topics in Entrepreneurship. (4 Hours)
Covers special topics in entrepreneurship. May be repeated once.
ENTR 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ENTR 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated without limit.
ENTR 5000. New Venture Development. (1-4 Hours)
Pairs students with entrepreneurs and faculty in a mentorship capacity. This experiential learning is designed to accelerate entrepreneurial projects. Uses classroom learning to enhance project value proposition, market opportunity, technology development level, financials, go-to-market-strategy, and pitches.
Finance and Insurance Courses
FINA 1209. Personal Finance. (4 Hours)
Emphasizes the development of individually focused financial information and a comprehensive financial plan designed to enable the individual to manage his or her financial affairs. Integrates personal goals—such as buying a home, retirement, investing, and insurance needs—to help assure that the financial plan incorporates the major decision stages an individual faces.
FINA 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
FINA 2201. Financial Management. (4 Hours)
Designed to develop the financial skills and logical thought processes necessary to understand and discuss financial policy decisions in a global economy. Specific objectives include developing an understanding of the time value of money; using financial statements in decision making; and understanding the nature of financial markets, the cost of capital, valuation of stocks and bonds, management of short-term assets, short-term and long-term financing, capital markets, and multinational financial management. Addresses the impact of legal, social, technological, and ethical considerations on efficient economic outcomes. Requires a financial calculator and provides an opportunity to develop computer spreadsheet skills.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 1201 with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 1209 with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 1202 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 2209. Financial Management. (4 Hours)
Does not count as credit for business majors. Counts as FINA 2201 for business minors only.
Prerequisite(s): ACCT 1201 with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 1209 with a minimum grade of D- or ACCT 1202 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 2720. Sustainability in the Business Environment. (4 Hours)
Examines a variety of environmental problems, including global warming, use and disposal of toxic substances, and depletion of natural resources such as water and petroleum. Many of these problems arise because these are resources that are available to all and so their overuse is an externality that is not included in manufacturing costs. Businesses have been involved in both identifying sustainability issues in their individual organizations and providing a variety of innovative solutions. Uses a combination of readings and case analyses to assesses how both government regulations—such as taxes, subsidies, building codes, prohibitions of use—and business solutions—including zero emissions, green design, producer take-back, life cycle assessment, and corporate environmental reporting—address these problems.
FINA 2730. Fintech and Financial Innovation. (4 Hours)
Offers a broad overview of the world of fintech, from the perspectives of both large financial institutions and small startups. Evaluates the financial services industry, forces at play that may lead to disruption in the industry, startups that have already succeeded in bringing about change, the technological tools that may be used to make changes, and how both startups and established firms might respond to the continued pace of change.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2209 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2202 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
FINA 3301. Corporate Finance. (4 Hours)
Designed to develop the skills needed to make and implement financial policy decisions in a global economy. Specific objectives include developing an understanding of financial analysis; company valuation; capital markets; cost of capital; capital asset pricing and risk management; short- and long-term financial policies; working capital management; multinational financial management; and special topics including lease financing, debt refunding, mergers and acquisitions, and bankruptcy and restructuring. Offers opportunities to consider many broader issues including the relevance of globalization; the world economy; technological advances; and legal, social, and ethical issues related to the practice of corporate finance. Stresses written and oral communication skills and teamwork. Uses cases and spreadsheets extensively.
Prerequisite(s): (FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2209 with a minimum grade of D- )
FINA 3303. Investments. (4 Hours)
Focuses on investment management as the study of risk and return of financial securities and real assets. Students design and assess models that evaluate investments while recognizing the constraints of the real world. Explores domestic and international financial markets and the securities traded therein. Discusses techniques for valuation of financial assets. Analyzes qualitative concepts such as market efficiency, intrinsic value, and risk. Provides the ability to build unique valuation models to suit the particular investment alternative that students wish to scrutinize. Also stresses portfolio construction, management, and protection, as well as performance assessment. During the semester, students have an opportunity to create and manage a stock portfolio.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 3305. Real Estate Principles. (4 Hours)
Presents a broad introduction to real estate. Introduces real estate theory, law, market analysis, and the fundamentals of real estate finance. Explores commercial real estate financing, property management, value creation strategies, and major historical events in property markets. Offers students an opportunity to develop the practical skills to evaluate personal and investment-oriented real estate decisions, understand the influences of macroeconomic factors, and consider urban development trends. No prior knowledge of real estate is necessary.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 3401. Responsible Investing. (4 Hours)
Examines environmental, social, governance, and socially responsible investing. Focuses on responsible investing from the perspective of investors and asset managers. Reviews the history and current landscape using a quantitative approach by evaluating the potential trade-offs between returns and impact. Considers how to incorporate ESG factors into investment decisions and use data-driven approaches to assess various investment products to determine if they are meeting their stated goals.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
FINA 4219. Portfolio Management. (4 Hours)
Studies the characteristics and formation of optimal portfolios by investing risky assets and fixed incomes. The discussion of theories and models is associated with the application for portfolio decision making in practice. Offers students an opportunity to obtain the ability to establish appropriate client investment objectives, gather and assess information necessary for determining the investment style and the selection of the securities and, evaluate the performance of a portfolio. Portfolio management is a critical functionality that is provided by financial institutions such as investment banks, insurance companies, and funds. This full-semester course is designed to introduce industry-grade portfolio analysis, exploring all aspects of investment evaluation from the perspective of institutional and individual investors.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4220. Behavioral Finance. (4 Hours)
Designed to revisit neoclassical economic theory based on rational market participants, then introduce students to the theory and evidence regarding psychological heuristics and biases that are inconsistent with the underlying assumptions of these classical models. Behavioral biases can severely influence financial decision making in the investment and the corporate environments, and it is important for students to understand how and why these biases occur. The course material, born out of the fields of cognitive psychology and behavioral economics, is designed to help students understand their own biases in making personal financial decisions.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4310. Working Capital Management. (4 Hours)
Examines strategies and analytical approaches to managing current assets and current liabilities. Explores corporate cash management under changing money market conditions. Discusses the use of interest rate futures and working capital management in a multinational context. Provides a summary overview of entrepreneurial finance, with a focus on small businesses, corporate ventures, and intrapreneurship. Applies knowledge of corporate finance in the context of starting, acquiring, managing, and divesting a business or a business unit within a corporation. Topics include analyzing the financial needs of new ventures, exploring sources of financing, managing decline, determining valuation, and reviewing exit strategies.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4312. Issues in Corporate Governance. (4 Hours)
Examines the nature of conflicts over control of the corporation. Applies modern finance theory and practice to the issues raised and draws on seminal works in the finance and economics literature that influence the current debate in this area. Discusses legal and ethical considerations that are especially important in corporate-control issues. Uses cases involving well-known takeovers, as well as current hostile takeover battles, to illustrate the theories discussed.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4320. International Financial Management. (4 Hours)
Introduces international financial markets including balance of payments, history of the international monetary system, exchange-rate determination, foreign-exchange-exposure hedging strategies, and international capital markets. Examines how the financial strategies and policies of multinational corporations differ from domestic corporations and how financial management is utilized in an international setting to achieve corporate goals.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4330. Emerging Financial Markets. (4 Hours)
Presents essential theoretical background and practical knowledge regarding investments in emerging financial markets. Covers how emerging markets are developed and how securities are valued and traded. Explores the major risk factors associated with investing in these markets as long as the basic institutional policy issues affect emerging markets. Finally, offers a practical approach to investing in emerging financial markets (including financial securities selections, analysis, and portfolio diversification).
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4335. Computational Methods and Their Applications in Finance. (4 Hours)
Introduces Python and its data-oriented library ecosystem (NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Statsmodels, SciPy, etc.). Python is one of the most widely used open-source, cross-platform programming languages. Focuses on developing a strong foundation for working with financial data in Python and implementing various financial models.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4340. Blockchain Applications in Finance. (4 Hours)
Introduces the fundamental concepts and an overview of the blockchain and cryptocurrency space. Offers a background in fundamental concepts in blockchain technology and functionality. Explores the basics of how blockchains record and verify information, including the related definitions and terminology. Provides an in-depth overview of blockchain applications in finance. Concludes by examining the legal and regulatory framework, along with potential risks and hurdles faced by blockchain technologies.
Prerequisite(s): ((FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D- ); (DS 2000 with a minimum grade of D- ; DS 2001 with a minimum grade of D- )) or (FINA 4335 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 4380 with a minimum grade of D- )
FINA 4350. Applied Financial Econometrics and Data Modeling. (4 Hours)
Examines how to understand and analyze data using a set of analytical tools in financial econometrics. Emphasizes time-series financial data and financial modeling. The course uses programming languages, such as Python, that are standard in fintech applications.
Prerequisite(s): ((FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D- ); (DS 2000 with a minimum grade of D- ; DS 2001 with a minimum grade of D- )) or (FINA 4335 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 4380 with a minimum grade of D- )
FINA 4370. Financial Modeling. (4 Hours)
Designed to develop students’ quantitative financial modeling skills and techniques using the Excel spreadsheet. Through learning how to use numerical examples and business cases, students study corporate valuation, weighted average cost of capital (WACC), pro forma statement modeling, portfolio models, and Monte Carlo simulation methods, etc. Seeks to cultivate students’ ability to make assumptions, deal with imperfect information, and real-world data issues. Offers students an opportunity to apply theoretical knowledge in advanced corporate finance, asset pricing, and option pricing in a real-world context. This course is highly quantitative in nature; while it does not derive complicated mathematical formulas, familiarity with concepts such as the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), WACC, portfolio theory, and pro forma financial statements is expected.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4390. Machine Learning in Finance. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to prepare for rapid changes in the financial services world due to technological innovations and to understand how ML and AI tools are relevant in the financial services industry; to learn the basics of these tools, including machine learning; and to analyze the ethical considerations in the use of these tools in financial services. Seeks to train students to develop data analytics solutions using machine learning and deep learning models, allowing them to answer analytical questions that are encountered in the finance space. Working knowledge of Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet programs is strongly recommended.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 4335 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 4380 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4410. Valuation and Value Creation. (4 Hours)
Explores recent developments in financial management and financial analysis through the use of modern finance theory to make capital allocation decisions that lead to long-run value maximization for the corporation. Focuses on applications and financial model building. Examines risk analysis by building spreadsheet models for valuation and risk-analysis applications. Utilizes valuation analysis models to merge financial, corporate, and business strategies to measure and manage corporate value. Develops an understanding of the mechanics of the valuation process, along with an understanding of the drivers of value and development of strategies for value creation. Topics covered are relevant to value consultants, corporate managers, and securities analysts.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4412. Personal Financial Planning. (4 Hours)
Emphasizes the development of personal financial management knowledge by applying the techniques and perspectives of financial planning professionals. Builds upon and applies skills gained in FINA 2201 to personal finance decisions such as retirement planning, home mortgages, and overall risk management. Offers students an opportunity to develop their own financial plan and understand how that plan will change as they age and their life situation changes. Note that while this course is not designed to prepare students to take the Certified Financial Planner exam, many of the topics, such as retirement planning, investment and securities planning, and estate planning, are among those discussed.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4420. Mergers and Acquisitions. (4 Hours)
Offers a practical, planning-based approach to managing the mergers and acquisitions (M&A) process. Analyzes how M&As create or destroy value; commonly used takeover tactics and defenses; M&A valuation techniques; alternative deal structures; and the financial, strategic, legal, and regulatory aspects of M&As. The first section covers how and when to apply the appropriate tools and skills to successfully complete a transaction. The second section offers students an opportunity to apply what has been learned to solve real-world business problems. Discusses all major elements of the acquisition process in the context of a logical process.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4460. Algorithmic and Robo-Trading. (4 Hours)
Covers the basis and implementation of trading strategies commonly used by investment professionals, such as fundamental analysis, factor investing, covariance models, and high-frequency trading. Today’s asset management industry increasingly incorporates the delivery and execution of investment strategies through automated algorithms. Offers students an opportunity to understand the advantages and limitations of systematic trading and execution strategies. Students apply and modify such strategies and evaluate their performance using real-time data and incorporate aspects of Big Data in their quantitative strategies. Familiarity with a programming language such as Python is expected.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 4335 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 4380 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4512. Financial Risk Management. (4 Hours)
Explores the concepts of financial futures, options on financial futures, and listed options markets as developed to help corporations and financial institutions manage financial risk. Covers financial derivatives and standard hedging techniques first, followed by a study of market risk and strategies in managing market risk.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4514. Investment Banking. (4 Hours)
Examines the investment banking business. Investment bankers are one of the most important conduits through which funds flow from savers to corporations needing to invest in plant and equipment. Offers an opportunity to examine the major functions of large investment banks in regard to their investment banking, market making, and asset management businesses; to determine the financing needs of domestic and international corporations, not-for-profit organizations, and government entities by using concepts learned in earlier courses; and to learn to link these financing needs with products that are available in the capital markets, usually through the investment banking houses.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4516. Real Estate Finance. (4 Hours)
Surveys the field of real estate including principles of real estate law, transactions brokerage, management, development, valuation, taxation, finance, and investment. Provides a framework of real estate finance and investment, in both theory and practice. Examines all aspects of real estate financing including the primary and secondary mortgage markets, real estate financial institutions, regulations, and mortgage-backed securities. Analyzes the return, risk, and various strategies in real estate investments with financial methods and techniques. Uses case discussions, spreadsheet analysis, and investment projects to make learning effective.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4524. Credit Analysis. (4 Hours)
Explores all aspects of credit evaluation from the perspective of banks and other institutions. Introduces industry-grade credit analysis. Credit analysis is used by all manner of banks and other institutions, such as insurance companies, hedge funds, private equity groups, and even elements of local, state, and federal governments, to evaluate clients and potential borrowers who need loans and other structured debt products.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4526. Core Topics in Alternative Investments. (4 Hours)
Covers alternative investments, including real assets such as real estate and real estate investment trusts, hedge funds, commodities, private equity, and structured products. This course is highly quantitative and focuses on methods for understanding risk, return, and benchmarking of these investments. Offers students an opportunity to obtain a deeper understanding of each of these asset types.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4602. Turnaround Management. (4 Hours)
Examines strategies for identifying companies likely to fail and selecting and implementing remedial actions. Topics include business turnarounds, troubled companies, workouts, bankruptcies, and liquidations, using case studies and readings. Students evaluate a turnaround plan.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4604. Fixed-Income Securities. (4 Hours)
Exposes students to the theory, application, and evidence concerning highly sensitive interest rate products. Explores recent developments in pension fund management, asset/liability management, duration matching, “gap” management, and other important issues confronting domestic and international financial and corporate management. Offers students the opportunity to learn how to customize a risk management program.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4605. Fintech Experiential Project. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to integrate the skills developed through their previous fintech coursework to propose, design, and implement a technology solution, either individually or in teams, to address a business problem. Either students or industry partners identify and define the business problem. The main objective of this experiential course is to develop and enhance students’ problem-solving and hands-on skills, leading to a deliverable project that includes proof of concept, a prototype, and/or a final paper/presentation that demonstrates a deep understanding of the subject. Students formally present their project to the faculty member and/or industry partner with whom they are collaborating. Registration is contingent on a research proposal and approval by one of the supervising instructors.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 4340 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 4350 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 4390 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4610. Entrepreneurial Finance and Private Equity. (4 Hours)
Covers qualitative and quantitative aspects of entrepreneurial finance, such as venture capital and angel financing. Also covers private equity (i.e., buyout/leveraged-buyout firms), but in less detail. Introduces valuation in entrepreneurial finance, including valuation of startups, using real options to value innovation-intensive firms, valuation in staged financing, etc. Casework emphasizes the practical aspects of qualitative and quantitative issues related to venture capital financing, entrepreneurship, and innovation from the perspective of the financier and the startup firm. Discusses issues related to the venture capital industry, such as the limited partnership structure, term-sheets and contracts, exit of portfolio firms, and international investments. Requires a working knowledge of Excel or other spreadsheet programs.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4970. Junior/Senior Honors Project 1. (4 Hours)
Focuses on in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Combined with Junior/Senior Project 2 or college-defined equivalent for 8 credit honors project. May be repeated without limit.
FINA 4983. Special Topics in Finance. (4 Hours)
Examines areas of current interest and special topics in finance. Employs a mix of lectures, cases, and projects. Topics depend on the instructor. May be repeated up to two times.
Prerequisite(s): FINA 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or FINA 3303 with a minimum grade of D-
FINA 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
FINA 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of faculty members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated up to three times for a maximum of 8 semester hours.
International Business Courses
INTB 1203. International Business and Global Social Responsibility. (4 Hours)
Introduces the student to forces and issues confronted in our era of rapid globalization. Managers must understand forces from interconnected social, political, and economic national environments that affect their company’s operations. At the same time they need to draw on their ethical foundations to address and act on social responsibility imperatives across national borders.
Attribute(s): NUpath Ethical Reasoning, NUpath Interpreting Culture
INTB 1204. Living, Learning, and Leading Globally. (1 Hour)
Functions as a foundational, cornerstone course that frames the Global Engagement Program and assists students in mapping their way forward. Covers cultural and ethical frameworks for understanding the context of global business as an integrated whole. Introduces global leadership competencies combined with multiple assessments to help foster greater self-awareness and establish a baseline for subsequent development. Offers students an opportunity to create a four-year professional development plan (PDP), a living document designed to guide students’ study and development throughout the program and to cultivate the mindset necessary for effective and authentic global leadership. May be repeated two times.
INTB 1205. The Global Business Environment. (4 Hours)
Describes the economic, political, regulatory, legal, cultural, international financial system, and geographic distance differences in the international business environment. Discusses how it differs from domestic business contexts and emphasizes the importance of international business to global enterprises. Offers students an opportunity to learn ethical reasoning in international business contexts, government-business relations, as well as the role of national interests and their impact on international business. Studies regional integration (e.g., the European Union), and introduces the role of foreign direct investment. Surveys how international business contributes to economic development. Portrays the antiglobalization movement and the rise of protectionism, nationalism, and industrial policy.
Attribute(s): NUpath Ethical Reasoning
INTB 1209. International Business and Global Social Responsibility. (4 Hours)
Does not count as credit for business majors. Counts as INTB 1203 for business minors only.
Attribute(s): NUpath Ethical Reasoning, NUpath Interpreting Culture
INTB 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
INTB 2202. Analyzing the Global Business Environment. (4 Hours)
Analyzes the global business environment—political, economic, sociocultural—and the use of various frameworks to aid in analysis and decision making. Introduces the global business environment in which firms have to compete. Specifically examines contemporary issues over the political, social, and economic consequences of the globalization of markets and industries. Also examines the responses of multinational enterprises to the challenges of globalization. Offers students an opportunity to review and revise their professional development plans (PDPs).
Prerequisite(s): INTB 1202 with a minimum grade of D- or BUSN 1101 with a minimum grade of D-
INTB 2205. Business Decision Making in Developed Country Environments. (2 Hours)
Focuses on international business decisions in developed nations such as the European Union, Japan, and other OECD countries and the growing importance of e-commerce. Covers export/import operations, establishing overseas joint ventures and alliances, and analyzing foreign direct investment as a key choice. Discusses configuring global supply chains and establishing global manufacturing operations. Introduces international marketing and international human resource policies. Offers students an opportunity to learn about global teams and assessing international business performance.
Corequisite(s): INTB 2206
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
INTB 2206. International Business Decision Making in Emerging Markets. (2 Hours)
Discusses how emerging markets fit into the global economy. Presents unique issues such as lack of infrastructure, limited affordability, volatile economies, political risk, and poverty alleviation. Describes how trade and foreign exchange policies affect emerging markets. Focuses on which emerging markets to invest in, why, and what market-entry strategies to use. Emphasizes the business opportunity in serving the poor in emerging markets. Covers the rise of digital commerce in emerging markets. Offers students an opportunity to learn about the outlook for emerging markets and implications for developed countries and the global economy.
Corequisite(s): INTB 2205
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
INTB 2501. Competing to Win in Emerging Markets. (4 Hours)
Presents an introduction to emerging markets, focusing on the BRIC countries of Brazil, Russia, India, and China. Takes the perspective of U.S. companies and what they must do to be successful in emerging markets. Discusses the differences between doing business in an emerging vs. a domestic market, the opportunities and potential of an emerging market, and the risks of operating in such a market. Then looks at the world from the perspective of emerging markets and discusses steps that their governments, companies, and entrepreneurs must take to succeed in the world economy. Analyzes what emerging markets must do to raise wages and incomes, accelerate wealth creation, and reduce poverty.
INTB 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
INTB 3205. Understanding and Managing Cultural Differences. (4 Hours)
Emphasizes the importance of cultural differences in international business. Describes the value of developing cultural agility in a global career, and discusses startups in diverse cultural contexts. Focuses on learning from international experiences and highlights the science behind what makes people successful in different countries and with people from different cultures. Discusses how to use this science to facilitate cultural agility development. Presents frameworks to understand cultural values; explains cultural curiosity and tolerance of ambiguity; emphasizes cultural responses such as adaptation, minimization, and integration; and studies living and working in a host country. Offers students an opportunity to develop self-management and relationship-management competencies in diverse cultural environments.
Attribute(s): NUpath Interpreting Culture
INTB 3310. Cultural Aspects of International Business. (4 Hours)
Helps develop awareness of the hidden influence of culture on behavior, particularly with respect to management and management practices. With the increasing globalization of business, many managers find themselves being managed by, or collaborating with, people of different nationalities and cultures. Develops the ability to recognize, understand, and work with the cultural diversity that affects business conducted across national and cultural boundaries.
Prerequisite(s): INTB 1201 with a minimum grade of D- or INTB 1203 with a minimum grade of D- or INTB 1209 with a minimum grade of D- or INTB 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or INTB 3320 with a minimum grade of D-
INTB 3320. International Business Management and Environment. (4 Hours)
Examines contemporary issues that confront today’s global managers. Explores the responses multinational enterprises have to the challenges of globalization. Seeks to build an understanding of the environment of international business while addressing the competencies required of global managers. Offers students an opportunity to develop a four-year professional development plan to guide their study and to help them develop the global mind-set necessary for becoming an effective global manager. Analyzes the political, economic, and sociocultural environment in which global businesses operate.
INTB 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
INTB 4202. Executing Global Strategy. (4 Hours)
Emphasizes global strategy and execution as well as the leadership requirements necessary to execute global strategy. Offers a capstone, “big picture” course that draws on and integrates all business fields and presents a global manager’s perspective. Uses the knowledge acquired in core courses—such as finance, accounting, operations, marketing, and organizational behavior—along with their international dimensions, to study how global managers reach strategic management decisions for the firm and its role in society. Offers students an opportunity to review and revise their professional development plans (PDPs) following their return from the expatriate experience and begin to develop post–Northeastern PDPs.
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
INTB 4970. Junior/Senior Honors Project 1. (4 Hours)
Focuses on in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Combined with Junior/Senior Project 2 or college-defined equivalent for 8 credit honors project. May be repeated without limit.
INTB 4983. Special Topics in International Business. (4 Hours)
Examines areas of current interest and special topics in the field of international business. May be repeated once.
INTB 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
INTB 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of faculty members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated up to four times for a maximum of 8 semester hours.
INTB 4998. International Business Undergraduate Thesis Continuation. (0 Hours)
Offers thesis continuation for students in the BSIB program who are working on their thesis as part of the dual-degree requirements. May be repeated once.
Management Courses
MGMT 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MGMT 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MGMT 3302. Negotiating in Business. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the nature of conflict, conflict resolution, and the structure and process of negotiations, negotiation ethics, as well as skills to deal with “difficult” negotiators. Negotiation is a lifelong skill that we use every day, not just a tactic to get a higher salary or a better deal. No matter what direction one’s professional life takes, negotiation is an essential part of one’s job and one’s life. To be effective, one must be a skillful negotiator. While some of us are naturally gifted negotiators, most of us are not; the concepts and techniques of skillful negotiations can be learned and practiced in the classroom. Offers students numerous opportunities to develop and practice negotiating skills.
MGMT 3305. Power and Influence. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to learn how to use power and influence as effective tools for understanding their work surroundings, working with and managing people, and achieving their own professional goals. Studies conceptual models, tactical approaches, and practical tools to help make sense of on-the-job learning experiences. Seeks to equip students with basic diagnostic and action-planning skills that can be used to understand power dynamics unfolding in any organization, as well as how best to leverage these dynamics. Previous work experience (e.g., part-time job or co-op) is recommended but not required for enrollment in the course.
MGMT 3315. Managing Organizational Change and Disruption. (4 Hours)
Covers fundamentals of change leadership as a set of integrated skills, focusing on examples of both proactive change (leveraging opportunities to grow and improve), as well as reactive change (leading in times of crisis). Uses case studies, media coverage, simulations, and guest speakers to examine some of the most dramatic changes encountered by business leaders in recent times and to evaluate different approaches to managing change at all levels of the organization. Examines the psychology of change, including overcoming fear of and resistance to change, and introduces practical frameworks that students can leverage in their own change efforts. Requires a student-led change project.
MGMT 3340. Healthcare Management, Innovation, and Design. (4 Hours)
Offers an overview of key U.S. health system components and imperatives and how to manage and innovate within the system to improve performance and the customer experience. Designed for students interested in healthcare careers that may have meaningful managerial, analytical, or consulting-type responsibilities. Covers essential elements of how healthcare delivery is organized and delivered; how to implement change and innovation in healthcare organizations such as hospitals and physician offices; and the interrelationships between facets of the business such as the drive for value and efficiency, promoting high-quality care, and enhancing the patient experience. Analyzes and critiques cutting-edge changes in the industry. Offers students an opportunity to learn about and use skills in process improvement, performance management, talent management, quality improvement, and work redesign.
MGMT 3350. Managing a Diverse Workforce. (4 Hours)
Examines issues related to managing oneself and others in an increasingly diverse workforce. Organizations need to address diversity issues in some manner if they are to compete effectively in a global economy. Covers diversity-related issues with management implications including religion, social identity, socialization, employment decisions by applicants and organizations, team dynamics, leadership, sexual harassment, workplace romance, career development, work and family, accommodation of people with disabilities, and organizational strategies for promoting equal opportunity and a multicultural approach toward diversity. Offers students an opportunity to conduct self-assessments to monitor their own workforce needs as they relate to issues of diversity, careers, and work-life integration.
MGMT 3380. Leadership. (4 Hours)
Designed to help develop students’ leadership skills and prepare themselves to lead with integrity. Uses discussion, case studies, exercises, and video/audio to explore both the science and the art of leadership. Topics include leadership theories, power and politics, counseling, communication, and followership. Additionally, this class includes a heavy focus on ethical philosophy and its application to leadership.
Prerequisite(s): COOP 3945 with a minimum grade of S or COOP 3948 with a minimum grade of S or COOP 3946 with a minimum grade of S or COOP 3947 with a minimum grade of S
MGMT 3420. Managing Human Capital. (4 Hours)
Offers an overview of the human resources management (HRM) function, including recruiting and hiring new employees, overseeing compensation and benefits, improving employee relations, and ensuring compliance with labor laws. Focuses on what a (non-HRM) manager needs to know about HRM and also seeks to provide a foundation for the HRM professional.
MGMT 3435. Social Networks and Organizations. (4 Hours)
Introduces students to social network analysis. Identifies and evaluates key elements of an individual's social network—including students' own networks—and familiarizes students with some tools and techniques for managing organizational networks. Examines different types and combinations of social relations, network structures of these relations, and institutional environments that impact them. The course combines lectures, case-based class discussions, and personal/organizational network analysis applications.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Natural/Designed World
MGMT 3530. Project Management. (4 Hours)
Discusses why good project management skills are essential to a wide variety of business careers. Covers why many important business projects fail due to poor planning, poor time management, going over budget, and/or ineffective communication. Includes a balance of strategic, technical, and behavioral issues in project management.
MGMT 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MGMT 4310. The Management Practices of Great Organizations. (4 Hours)
Focuses on a wide range of management practices, many of which are “radical” and represent organizations that “dare to be different.” The course uses many teaching approaches, including case studies, class exercises, and “competitions” that require students—and seek to increase their ability—to debate, present, think on their feet, and ask tough questions. Some organizations seem “to work”; they provide high-quality products and services, they treat their employees with respect, they behave ethically, they are strong financially, and the like. Students study and debate the criteria for a great organization in order to answer the key question of this course: how do they do it; i.e., why do they work so well?.
MGMT 4410. Workforce Analytics. (4 Hours)
Introduces workforce analytics, including identifying the strategic work that is truly necessary to execute strategy, investing in differentiated management systems that support that work, and designing and implementing targeted measurement systems for strategic talent. Emphasizes shifting from levels or metrics (e.g., what is our cost per hire?) to analytics and impact (e.g., how might an increase in the quality of our project managers affect new product cycle time?). Relevant for students specializing in corporate finance, management, marketing, and international business. Many firms spend over 50 percent of their revenues on the workforce, but these investments are rarely well measured or managed.
MGMT 4550. Management Consulting in Organizations. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to gain practical experience in finding appropriate solutions for complex and dynamic client organizational issues using a structured curriculum and frequent in-class coaching sessions. Students work as pro bono consultants both onsite and virtually with organizations to help solve real client challenges in the managing and leading of an organization. Students employ management consulting as a framework in demonstrating proficiency in a wide range of knowledge and skill areas in both management and consulting. Structures course deliverables as challenging goals to be achieved within a set time frame by working with students' chosen consulting (Pod) group and through individual assignments.
Prerequisite(s): COOP 3945 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of S or COOP 3948 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of S
MGMT 4983. Special Topics in Management. (4 Hours)
Offers special topics in management. May be repeated once.
MGMT 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MGMT 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of faculty members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated up to four times for a maximum of 8 semester hours.
Management Information Systems
MISM 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MISM 2301. Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies. (4 Hours)
Examines the strategic role of information systems in the enterprise and the functions, advantages, impacts, and risks that organization faces when they evaluate, implement, utilize, and upgrade modern technologies and platforms. Provides in-depth understanding about the nature of digital and disruptive technologies and how they are used to solve problems. Also discusses how information systems and information technologies are leveraged to gather and analyze data to create new uses. Explores the use of frameworks to analyze business situations and of productive software to tackle data analyses.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data, NUpath Ethical Reasoning
MISM 2420. Foundations of Business Analysis. (4 Hours)
Introduces skills and techniques that business analysts use during project processes. Business analysis is the practice of enabling change in organizations by framing problems, defining needs, understanding stakeholders, and recommending solutions that deliver value to customers and/or stakeholders. Offers students an opportunity to develop knowledge and business analysis skills such as planning, eliciting, communicating, analyzing, validating, and managing requirements. These practices enable business analysts to effectively contribute in teams that are charged with the implementation of product, process, technology, or strategic change.
Prerequisite(s): MISM 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
MISM 2510. Fundamentals of Information Analytics. (4 Hours)
Focuses on information analytics concepts and techniques needed by educated information analysts, designers, and consumers to lead organizations in the contemporary information age. Includes concepts, techniques, methods, and strategies for the entire information life cycle—collection, organization, exploration, analysis, manipulation, visualization, interpretation, and presentation of information for business. Each of these topics is introduced with real-world examples and data sets, grounded in relevant theory and principles, and is reinforced using various user-friendly software tools to gain the necessary analytical skills and knowledge.
MISM 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MISM 3403. Data Management for Business. (4 Hours)
Offers students an introduction to and overview of the methodological frameworks and tool sets for the design, development, and implementation of data-management solutions. Today, almost no aspect of business operates without a strong reliance on the flow of information. Even small enterprises track huge volumes of data, from sales transactions and supply chain activities to Web site traffic. Knowledge workers and managers at all levels within the organization require an understanding of data management, database design and operations, and associated decision-support and data-analysis tools and systems to complete even day-to-day tasks. Offers students an opportunity to work hands-on, applying these methods and tools to solve actual business problems.
MISM 3405. Data Wrangling for Business Analytics. (4 Hours)
Covers data wrangling principles and novel techniques for business analytics. Key topics include data profiling, data retrieval, data cleansing, and data integration, as well as data extraction and exploration via APIs. Applies the principles of data wrangling for structured and unstructured data using industry tools such as Oracle, SQL, statistical programming languages (R/Python), and visualization tools (Tableau). Offers students an opportunity to learn data wrangling techniques to identify and solve real-world data challenges, creating business value from the vast amount and types of traditional and big data.
MISM 3460. Web Design and Development for Business. (4 Hours)
Introduces web design and development with a focus on client-side technologies. Covers topics such as website evaluation and analysis, website design, website development, content management systems, and website hosting. Uses hands-on projects to explore HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and modern frameworks to support client-side web development. Also discusses the structure of dynamic, data driven, and interactive web applications and covers the characteristics of mobile apps/mobile-first websites.
Prerequisite(s): MISM 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
MISM 3501. Information Visualization for Business. (4 Hours)
Introduces the use of design, interaction, and visualization techniques and strategies to support the effective presentation and manipulation of business information. Based on principles from art, design, psychology, and information science, offers students opportunities to learn how to successfully choose appropriate methods of representing various kinds of business data to support analysis, decision making, and communication to organizational stakeholders.
MISM 3515. Data Mining for Business. (4 Hours)
Covers key concepts, techniques, methods, and applications of data mining in the context of business. Offers students opportunities to learn how to distill key insights from a large amount of unknown data, which techniques to choose from, how to apply the techniques and methods to get the answer and insights from the data, and how to interpret the results from the analysis. Example predictive analysis techniques include market basket analysis and principle component analysis. Covers all techniques using business examples and user-friendly tools.
Prerequisite(s): MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or ECON 2350 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2280 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 3081 with a minimum grade of D- or POLS 2400 with a minimum grade of D-
MISM 3525. Modeling for Business Analytics. (4 Hours)
Focuses on modern decision models in business analytics with applications to business process design, revenue management, pricing, inventory control, business network planning, and other topics. Introduces concepts including optimization, dynamic programming, cluster analysis, and consumer choice models. Emphasizes data-driven, real-world applications of the mathematical decision tools and concepts presented in the course.
Prerequisite(s): COMM 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or ECON 2350 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2280 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 3081 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or PHTH 2210 with a minimum grade of D- or POLS 2400 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D-
MISM 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MISM 4405. IT Requirements Analysis and Modeling for Business. (4 Hours)
Studies how to model and analyze stakeholder requirements in order to define a workable solution for a problem. Utilizes a small project development example to illustrate the process of requirements discovery, business problem scoping, functional requirements definition, and functional requirements modeling. Uses the Requirements Modeling Language as the modeling system. Also introduces iterative development of requirements and methods for communicating functional requirements.
Prerequisite(s): MISM 2420 with a minimum grade of D-
MISM 4501. Strategic Information Products. (4 Hours)
Examines significant improvements to business performance, which can be achieved through sharing information within the enterprise and with customers and suppliers. Realizing the full business benefits of shared information requires changing processes and organizational structures. This team- and project-based course offers students an opportunity to design and implement these strategies and to examine significant improvements to business performance.
Prerequisite(s): CS 2510 with a minimum grade of C- or IS 3500 with a minimum grade of D- or MISM 3403 with a minimum grade of D-
MISM 4983. Special Topics in Management Information Systems. (4 Hours)
Offers special topics in Management Information Systems. May be repeated once.
MISM 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MISM 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of faculty members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated up to four times for a maximum of 8 semester hours.
Management Science Courses
MGSC 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MGSC 2301. Business Statistics. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to obtain the necessary skills to collect, summarize, analyze, and interpret business-related data. Covers descriptive statistics, sampling and sampling distributions, statistical inference, relationships between variables, formulating and testing hypotheses, and regression analysis in the context of business. Use of the SPSS statistical programming package is an integral part of the course.
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
MGSC 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MGSC 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MGSC 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
Marketing Courses
MKTG 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MKTG 2201. Introduction to Marketing. (4 Hours)
Provides an overview of the role of marketing in business and society. Considers the planning, implementation, and evaluation of marketing efforts in consumer and business-to-business companies, in service and goods companies, and in for-profit and nonprofit organizations. Also examines contemporary issues in marketing that can affect organizational success. A term project is used to enable students to apply their learning about the fundamentals of marketing.
MKTG 2209. Introduction to Marketing. (4 Hours)
Does not count as credit for business majors. Counts as MKTG 2201 for business minors only.
MKTG 2301. Marketing and Society. (4 Hours)
Examines the role of marketing and business in society’s central contemporary problems as well as the way marketing can take a positive and influential role in the efforts to address these problems. Reviews some of our society’s main problems and a critical view of marketing and business in today’s world. Also examines changing marketing practices and roles for businesses as firms and institutions become more socially responsible and ethically aware. Finally, introduces and analyzes the role of prosocial marketing, how marketing can influence people’s behavior for advancing a socially desirable change. Offers students an opportunity to better understand our society and enhance an ethical mind-set, while highlighting the ways marketers can contribute to societal well-being.
Attribute(s): NUpath Societies/Institutions
MKTG 2602. Quantitative Analysis of Consumer Data. (4 Hours)
Introduces the fundamental techniques of quantitative data analysis and visualization in the marketing context. Emphasizes real-world consumer data and applications using R. Offers students an opportunity to learn a wide variety of foundational data-driven inference methods and progress to more advanced coursework delving into analyzing and understanding complex behavioral data. No previous experience in data analysis or programming required.
MKTG 2720. Enabling Technologies for Consumer Engagement. (4 Hours)
Introduces how organizations use the latest technologies for enhancing consumer engagement. Uses case studies and exercises to offer a broad overview of creative marketing applications across multiple industries and touchpoints. Examples may include augmented reality, virtual reality, mixed reality, internet of things, real-time interactivity, geolocation tools, wearables, dynamic content personalization, automation, social media, chatbots, voice assistants, and artificial intelligence.
MKTG 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MKTG 3301. Marketing Management. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the marketing process through the use of case studies simulating actual business settings and marketing challenges. Develops skill in marketing decision making, critical analysis, and communication. Topics include techniques for undertaking market analysis, marketing strategy (segmentation and positioning), and marketing implementation (4 Ps). A marketing plan project is used to enable students to apply their understanding about the marketing process.
Prerequisite(s): (MKTG 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2209 with a minimum grade of D- )
MKTG 3401. Marketing Research. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to gain experience in the marketing research process, while working on a client-based project. Topics include problem definition, secondary research, exploratory research, experimental design, questionnaire design, sampling and recruitment, and data analysis and visualization. Exercises skills of project management, teamwork, and client relationship management. Seeks to prepare students for careers that utilize consumer insights to inform managerial decisions.
Prerequisite(s): (MKTG 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2209 with a minimum grade of D- ); (MGSC 1201 with a minimum grade of D- or MGSC 2301 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 2280 with a minimum grade of D- or ECON 2350 with a minimum grade of D- or MATH 3081 with a minimum grade of D- or POLS 2400 with a minimum grade of D- or IS 3500 with a minimum grade of D- or PSYC 2320 with a minimum grade of D- or PHTH 2210 with a minimum grade of D- )
MKTG 3402. Gaining Insights from Consumer Data. (4 Hours)
Examines how to capture, manage, analyze, and apply consumer data to gain a better understanding of consumer attitudes, preferences, and thought processes with the goal of helping organizations improve customer experience. Focuses on defining, designing, and solving marketing problems through data analysis and experimental design.
Prerequisite(s): (CS 2500 with a minimum grade of D- or DS 2000 with a minimum grade of D- ); MKTG 2602 with a minimum grade of D-
MKTG 3501. Marketing Analytics. (4 Hours)
Examines a wide range of analytical approaches to support marketing decision making and performance measuring in organizations. Offers students an opportunity to learn how to implement such approaches in practice. Focuses on identifying and acquiring relevant data to address different marketing challenges, conducting relevant quantitative analyses, and communicating obtained insights across the organization to make better marketing decisions.
Prerequisite(s): MKTG 3401 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 3402 with a minimum grade of D-
MKTG 3720. Brand Management. (4 Hours)
Introduces students to the multifaceted responsibilities of a brand manager, including understanding market trends and the competitive landscape; developing the brand story; conducting and analyzing consumer research to identify brand opportunities; creating and maintaining a brand budget; establishing and implementing cross-platform brand communication strategy; measuring brand performance; and executing marketing and advertising campaigns. Brand managers in technology, consumer packaged goods (CPG), and service organizations shape the trajectories of global brands and products.
MKTG 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MKTG 4120. Undergraduate Research Practicum in Marketing. (4 Hours)
Offers students an advanced-level experiential learning opportunity working directly with a faculty mentor on an academic marketing research project. Depending on the mutual interests of students and faculty, research may be behavioral/experimental or quantitative/analytical in nature. Engages students in multiple aspects of a research project: literature review; theory development; hypothesis generation; research design; data analysis and visualization; and developing insights for managers, researchers, and policy. Students meet weekly with the course instructors for skill-building sessions and lab meetings.
MKTG 4220. Marketing in Asia. (4 Hours)
Studies the opportunities and challenges associated with the increasing globalization of Indian and Asian markets. During this Dialogue of Civilizations, students study key environmental forces shaping consumer needs and preferences, the impact of foreign political and economic factors on entering companies, the influence of international competition, market segmentation, and strategy decisions specific to Asian marketing. Analyzes the impact of cultural, social, political, and economic factors on marketing strategies. Offers students an opportunity to learn how to determine when to use different market entry and penetration strategies and how to examine the different skills and systems required to implement marketing strategies in India and broader Asia.
MKTG 4420. Sales Management. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the entire sales effort. Offers students the opportunity to apply a proven selling process and present compelling solutions to customers. Topics include how to translate product features into buyer benefits, how to handle customer objections, and how to close sales and deals. Covers team selling and relationship marketing. Intended for students interested in a sales career as well as future product managers who must rely on the sales force to introduce new products and promotions.
Prerequisite(s): MKTG 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
MKTG 4502. Managing Customer Engagement in a Service World. (4 Hours)
Examines why people are essential to success, why expectations are important to consumers, and how physical and virtual environments influence delivery of value to customers. Focuses on active skill building and tool development in a practice-oriented approach that is quickly and directly applicable to students’ future careers. The primary theme of the course is that both service organizations and product organizations require a distinctive approach to marketing strategy in a world where all organizations increasingly depend on service excellence and customer engagement for competitive advantage.
Prerequisite(s): MKTG 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
MKTG 4504. Advertising and Brand Promotion. (4 Hours)
Focuses on developing a creative advertising strategy and brand plan that aligns with a company’s overall marketing objectives. Topics include the business of brands, marketing strategy, ethical and legal considerations in advertising, advertising strategy development, media planning and buying, creative development and testing, identifying and measuring success on key performance indicators, historical foundations of advertising, and what’s next in the industry. Students apply course concepts to develop a creative advertising strategy to address campaign objectives.
Prerequisite(s): MKTG 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
MKTG 4506. Consumer Behavior. (4 Hours)
Incorporates the latest research in marketing, psychology, and other behavioral sciences to help students develop evidence-based strategies for predicting and influencing consumer behavior. Consumers are at the center of the business value creation process; therefore, an understanding of consumer thoughts, feelings, and actions is critical for business success. Offers students an opportunity to learn how to successfully target the right audience by conducting and interpreting market research; shape thoughts by getting consumers’ attention and making a lasting impression; influence attitudes by applying principles of persuasion and social influence; and impact consumer decisions by harnessing motivations and drivers of behavior.
Prerequisite(s): MKTG 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
MKTG 4508. Digital Marketing. (4 Hours)
Examines the impact of technology on the marketing of goods and services. Focuses on the Internet and the World Wide Web. Investigates recent trends in e-business and identifies marketing strategies that work in this new environment. Introduces students to frameworks that help explain current issues in electronic marketing. Although the focus is on Internet marketing strategy, phenomena such as television home shopping and database marketing are also explored. Readings, cases, discussions, lectures, guest speakers, student reports, and exercises on the World Wide Web are all utilized.
Prerequisite(s): MKTG 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
MKTG 4510. New Product Development. (4 Hours)
Provides an overview of the new-product-development process, with an emphasis on customer involvement in this process. Detailed insights are provided on such topics as new-product strategy, idea generation, idea selection and evaluation, concept development and testing, product development and testing, and market testing and product launch.
Prerequisite(s): MKTG 3401 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of D-
MKTG 4512. International Marketing. (4 Hours)
Introduces those aspects of marketing that are unique to international business within the framework of traditional functional areas of marketing. Focuses on the environment and the modifications of marketing concepts and practices necessitated by environmental differences. Topics include cultural dynamics in international markets, political and legal environmental constraints, educational and economic constraints, international marketing research, international marketing institutions, and marketing practices abroad.
Prerequisite(s): MKTG 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2202 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
MKTG 4520. Business-to-Business Marketing. (4 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to acquire marketable skills in the areas of business buyer behavior and communication, customer relationship management (CRM) and marketing, sales call planning and presentations, negotiation, pricing, networking, and inbound marketing strategy. Business-to-business (B2B) marketing involves selling products and services to organizations (e.g., for-profit firms, government agencies, and institutions) and focuses on deeply contextual relationship development to effectively attract, develop, and retain business customers. Includes interactive lectures, learn-by-doing exercises, role-playing, guest speakers, and training sessions.
Prerequisite(s): MKTG 2201 with a minimum grade of D- or MKTG 2209 with a minimum grade of D-
MKTG 4604. Creating Business Value with Data and AI Technologies. (4 Hours)
Designed to prepare students for careers that demand an understanding of the intersection between the growing data-driven and technology-enabled possibilities and various ways in which they can be creatively leveraged for designing better digital products and markets. Rapidly emerging new digital ecosystems, platforms, products, and services have been fundamentally transforming business practices and market landscapes in almost every industry. Using real-life case studies and projects, students examine and apply fundamental economic principles and conceptual business frameworks that are essential for understanding how emerging data opportunities and new computing technologies can be used for value creation. Considers various approaches for establishing fair and appropriate rules, regulations, and policies to mitigate potential biases, ethical challenges, and discrimination arising due to the digital transformation.
MKTG 4606. Digital, Analytics, Technology, and Automation Research Practicum. (4 Hours)
Offers an advanced-level experiential learning opportunity for students who wish to gain exposure to solving problems facing businesses and other organizations using data analytics and digital technology applications. The practicum offers students an opportunity to learn through active participation in client-centric challenges in a DATA context. Faculty and organizations present a variety of such challenges, and students are guided through solving these challenges. Discusses how new technologies affect human behavior, examines how digital convergence impacts society and organizations, and studies how to apply state-of-the-art methods in machine learning to create value for businesses and organizations. Students practice communicating and enabling change within organizations. Focuses on building students’ technical and managerial skills to develop capacities to situate a business problem in a wider research context.
MKTG 4720. Understanding the Platform Economy. (4 Hours)
Examines the key drivers and building blocks of digital business transformations underlying the best marketing practices of the platform economy and discusses how companies can successfully take advantage of emerging multisided platforms and market-driven network externalities. Offers students an opportunity to learn how platforms change the way firms and consumers transact; to identify customer groups whose affiliation with the platform is most valuable; to understand the dynamics and limitations of platform-based network effects; to design competitive platform-based marketing strategies; and to develop plans for turning products and services into sustainable platforms. Explores consumer-based perspectives to highlight potential biases and discrimination arising in the platform economy. Considers various approaches for establishing fair and appropriate regulations and policies to mitigate such issues.
MKTG 4983. Special Topics in Marketing. (4 Hours)
Offers special topics in marketing. May be repeated once.
MKTG 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
MKTG 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of faculty members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated up to four times for a maximum of 8 semester hours.
Organizational Behavior Courses
ORGB 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ORGB 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ORGB 3201. Organizational Behavior. (4 Hours)
Provides an overview of the actions and behaviors of people in organizations. Uses case studies, videos, experiential exercises, lectures, and discussions to explore the effects of individual, interpersonal, group, organizational, and cross-cultural factors on human behavior. Topics include groups and teams, motivation, leadership, organizational change, organizational culture, structure, conflict resolution, and communication. Both the underlying theories and principles of these topics, as well as their practical applications and implications for organizations, are covered.
Prerequisite(s): (COOP 3945 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of S or COOP 3946 with a minimum grade of S or COOP 3947 with a minimum grade of S or COOP 3948 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of S ); (ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C )
Attribute(s): NUpath Writing Intensive
ORGB 3209. Organizational Behavior. (4 Hours)
Does not count as credit for business majors. Counts as ORGB 3201 for business minors only.
ORGB 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ORGB 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
ORGB 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of faculty members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated up to four times for a maximum of 8 semester hours.
Supply Chain Management Courses
SCHM 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
SCHM 2301. Supply Chain and Operations Management. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the integrative management of business activities intrinsic to the smooth flow of goods or services, information, and financial transactions across firms from raw materials to the end customer. This collaborative approach creates competitive advantages for all members of a supply chain. Emphasizes the responsibilities of managers regarding decisions concerning the design, operation, and control of supply chains and operations. Considers customers, globalization, corporate strategy, resources, sustainability, ethics, and diversity. Topics covered include customer-centric management; supply chain and operations strategies; process structure and control; and supply, inventory, and quality management. Emphasizes the key role of information technology, logistics network design, supply chain relationships, and process evolution.
SCHM 2990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
SCHM 3301. Global Supply Chain Strategy. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the managerial activities of those involved in supply chain management operations and planning for companies doing international commerce. Analyzes contemporary issues that affect the design of international supply chain systems, including sourcing, logistics, transactions, risk, sustainability, and ethical considerations. Examines the current status and future prospects of the modes of international transportation as well as international trade and development issues, not only from the corporate perspective but also in terms of government policy.
Prerequisite(s): SCHM 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
SCHM 3302. Supply Chain Management for Engineers. (4 Hours)
Focuses on the qualitative frameworks, processes, and activities involved in the planning, transformation, and delivery of goods and services in a context uniquely geared to engineering students, who likely have already studied many of the key quantitative aspects of modern supply chain management. Offers students an opportunity to obtain foundational knowledge in key areas such as project management, supplier selection, legal aspects of supply chain management, supplier relational management, global sourcing, and logistics.
SCHM 3303. Supply Chain Risk Management. (4 Hours)
Explores the critical realm of mitigating supply chain disruptions within the dynamic landscape of contemporary business. Examines the intricacies of global supply chains, emphasizing real-world scenarios and exploring proactive measures such as diversification, technology integration, and strategic partnerships. Discusses challenges ranging from geopolitical uncertainties to natural disasters. Analyzes risk identification, assessment, and response strategies. Offers students an opportunity to gain practical insights into crisis communication, scenario planning, and the implementation of robust risk mitigation frameworks.
SCHM 3305. Sourcing, Procurement, and Negotiation. (4 Hours)
Addresses the strategic and operational role of sourcing and procurement and its impact on the supply chain as it relates to the entire organization. The selection, contracting, development and monitoring/managing of the right supplier in the right location is more often a source of competitive advantage and a major contributor to a company’s bottom line. The course focuses on a variety of aspects of this function—strategy development, organization, procedures, supplier selection, negotiations, buyer-supplier relationship management, quantity, quality, timeliness, and cost/price considerations for the purchase of goods and services.
Prerequisite(s): SCHM 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
SCHM 3308. Supply Chain Analytics and Emerging Technologies. (4 Hours)
Examines state-of-the-art in analytics capabilities and how they drive supply chains, from marketing to sourcing. Examines how organizations use analytics to meet their strategic objectives, provide value to the business, and make decisions. Offers students an opportunity to develop strategic supply chain decision-making skills using the latest analytics capabilities as an enabler. Focuses heavily on industry best practices, including looking at some of the leading companies.
Prerequisite(s): SCHM 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or SCHM 3305 with a minimum grade of D- or SCHM 3310 with a minimum grade of D-
SCHM 3310. Logistics and Transportation Management. (4 Hours)
Examines the logistics and transportation operations, including the structure, challenges, and potential of the major modes of domestic transportation. Focuses on the interaction between logistics providers and shippers in the marketplace. Explores the major dynamics of the logistics marketplace and their impact on supply chain management. Seeks to provide students with a managerial perspective on controlling what is typically the most expensive component of supply chain management, transportation expenditures.
Prerequisite(s): SCHM 2301 with a minimum grade of D-
SCHM 3315. Managing Healthcare Operations and Supply Chain. (4 Hours)
Focuses on concepts and topics related to the design and management of healthcare sector operations and supply chain. Offers students an opportunity to learn about practices and strategies for effective management of operations and supply chain in healthcare organizations, including management of inventory, operations processes, capacity, procurement, logistics, IT systems, and attendant relationships, as well as various optimization tools and techniques.
SCHM 3320. Forecasting and Sales and Operations Planning. (4 Hours)
Offers a practical introduction to demand (sales) planning and forecasting for business students. Focuses on the organizational processes in managing demand as well as generating a forecast, regression analysis, exponential smoothing, time-series analysis, judgmental forecasting methods, and evaluation of forecast quality. Uses real-life data and various software packages to illustrate basic concepts.
Prerequisite(s): SCHM 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or SCHM 3305 with a minimum grade of D- or SCHM 3310 with a minimum grade of D-
Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data
SCHM 3330. Sustainable Supply Chain Management. (4 Hours)
Focuses on how to create sustainable supply chains that profitably yield high-quality, safe products without supply interruption while creating a net benefit for the employees, community, and the environment. Studies how companies measure environmental performance and use the data to motivate associates, suppliers, customers, policymakers, and the public. Also addresses the impacts of global sustainability frameworks and measures.
Prerequisite(s): SCHM 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or SCHM 3305 with a minimum grade of D- or SCHM 3310 with a minimum grade of D-
SCHM 3990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
SCHM 4401. Contemporary Topics in Supply Chain Management. (4 Hours)
Identifies and examines important issues that are of strategic importance to executives involved in supply chain management. Emphasizes the decision-making processes and tools employed by those executives in the context of corporate strategic management. While case studies are extensively employed, there is an important independent research component to the course, and research findings are discussed with the class and shared through presentations. Also involves companies and executives from supply chain service providers.
Prerequisite(s): (SCHM 3301 with a minimum grade of D- or SCHM 3305 with a minimum grade of D- or SCHM 3310 with a minimum grade of D- ); (ENGL 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGL 1102 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1111 with a minimum grade of C or ENGW 1102 with a minimum grade of C )
SCHM 4970. Junior/Senior Honors Project 1. (4 Hours)
Focuses on in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the student’s major field. Combined with Junior/Senior Project 2 or college-defined equivalent for 8 credit honors project. May be repeated without limit.
SCHM 4983. Special Topics in Supply Chain Management. (4 Hours)
Offers special topics in Supply Chain Management. May be repeated once.
SCHM 4990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.
SCHM 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of faculty members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated up to four times for a maximum of 8 semester hours.
Strategy Courses
STRT 4301. Strategic Analysis and Decision Making. (4 Hours)
Examines key components of strategic decision making in-depth. Strategic decision making involves solving complex business problems to achieve company objectives within a competitive context. Topics covered include understanding the competitive environment, managing uncertainty, identifying and evaluating resource allocation alternatives, and creating action plans to implement strategic decisions. Emphasizes critical thinking and making decisions with incomplete information in a competitive environment.
STRT 4501. Strategy in Action. (4 Hours)
Introduces and describes the tools necessary to analyze, formulate, and implement business strategy in today’s uncertain and volatile world. Provides a dynamic, global, cross-functional perspective across traditional, platform, digital, and other cutting-edge businesses. Offers students an opportunity to sharpen their ability to think strategically at multiple levels, including overall strategies, major firm activities, and specific actions. Examines the drivers of sustained superior performance in the face of rapidly changing markets, technologies, societies, and geopolitics. Offers a capstone experience that translates into real-world strategic situations.
Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive
STRT 4509. Strategic Management. (4 Hours)
Presents a general management perspective on business strategy, the "big picture." Illustrates how a well-thought-out strategy can lead to sustained, superior performance by firms in a dynamic business environment. Offers students an opportunity to obtain a broad understanding of the importance and complexity of strategic decisions from a practical and problem-oriented approach. Applies concepts, analytic frameworks, and intuition to the strategic issues that real-world companies face.
STRT 4992. Directed Study. (1-4 Hours)
Offers independent work under the direction of faculty members of the department on a chosen topic. Course content depends on instructor. May be repeated up to three times for a maximum of 8 semester hours.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/accelerated-bachelor-graduate-degree-programs/
Northeastern University’s D’Amore-McKim School of Business develops leaders and thinkers who will guide the future of work that is being transformed by technology and data. The D’Amore-McKim PlusOne accelerated master’s programs provide motivated students with the opportunity to start earning their master’s degree while pursuing their undergraduate education.
Depending on the program, students accepted into a PlusOne accelerated master's may take up to a total of 16 graduate credits while they are undergraduates and can apply those credits toward both the bachelor and master’s degrees.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/business-administration-bsba/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
NUpath requirements Differences and Diversity (DD) and Creative Expression and Innovation (EI) are not explicitly satisfied by required courses in the business curriculum at this time. Students are responsible for satisfying these requirements, and if these are not fulfilled in required major courses, they should use general electives to do so.
Business Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Accounting | ||
ACCT 1201 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
ACCT 2301 | Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors | 4 |
Finance | ||
FINA 2201 | Financial Management | 4 |
Marketing | ||
MKTG 2201 | Introduction to Marketing | 4 |
Management Information Systems | ||
MISM 2301 | Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies | 4 |
Operations Management and Supply Chain Management | ||
SCHM 2301 | Supply Chain and Operations Management | 4 |
Organizational Behavior | ||
ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
Strategy in Action | ||
STRT 4501 | Strategy in Action | 4 |
International Business/Social Responsibility | ||
INTB 1203 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | 4 |
Statistics | ||
MGSC 2301 | Business Statistics | 4 |
Concentration
Complete the required concentration appropriate to your program. One concentration is required. A second concentration is optional.
- Accounting
- Accounting and Advisory Services
- Brand Management
- Business Analytics
- Corporate Innovation
- Entrepreneurial Startups
- Family Business
- Finance
- Fintech
- Healthcare Management and Consulting
- International Business (available only as a second concentration)
- Management
- Management Information Systems
- Marketing
- Marketing Analytics
- Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship
- Supply Chain Management
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Mathematics | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Calculus for Business and Economics | ||
Calculus 1 | ||
Calculus 2 | ||
Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 1 | ||
Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 2 | ||
Intensive Calculus for Engineers | ||
Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | ||
Calculus 2 for Science and Engineering | ||
Macroeconomics and Microeconomics | ||
ECON 1115 | Principles of Macroeconomics | 4 |
ECON 1116 | Principles of Microeconomics | 4 |
Business Experiential Learning
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete at least one of the following experiences: | ||
Co-op Work Experience | ||
Co-op Work Experience--Half Time | ||
Co-op Work Experience Abroad--Half Time | ||
Co-op Work Experience Abroad | ||
Internship Experience (with D’Amore-McKim Cooperative Education Department Approval) | ||
Internship Experience Abroad (with D’Amore-McKim Cooperative Education Department Approval) |
Business GPA Requirement
A minimum 2.000 GPA in business courses is required.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Note: Plan of study will vary based upon student's academic program. The four-year plan of study will require summer courses throughout the student's academic career. Individual study plans will be created with an academic advisor.
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BUSN 1101 | 4 | ECON 1115 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
BUSN 1102 | 1 | Business core | 4 | ENGW 1111, ECON 1116, or MATH 1231 | 4 | Business core | 4 |
ENGW 1111, ECON 1116, or MATH 1231 (FQ) | 4 | ENGW 1111, ECON 1116, or MATH 1231 (FQ) | 4 | ||||
Take two: | 8 | Take one: | 4 | ||||
MGSC 2301 (AD) | MGSC 2301 (AD) | ||||||
INTB 1203 (IC and ER) | INTB 1203 (IC and ER) | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Concentration course | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Business core | 4 |
Business core | 4 | ORGB 3201 | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
NUpath | 4 | ||||||
BUSN 1103 | 1 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Concentration course | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Elective | 4 |
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
NUpath | 4 | ||||||
Business core | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
ENGW 3304 | 4 | STRT 4501 | 4 | ||||
Concentration course | 4 | Concentration course | 4 | ||||
NUpath | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Note: Plan of study will vary based upon student's academic program. The four-year plan of study will require summer courses throughout the student's academic career. Individual study plans will be created with an academic advisor.
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BUSN 1101 | 4 | ECON 1115 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
BUSN 1102 | 1 | Business core | 4 | ENGW 1111, ECON 1116, or MATH 1231 | 4 | Business core | 4 |
ENGW 1111, ECON 1116, or MATH 1231 (FQ) | 4 | ENGW 1111, ECON 1116, or MATH 1231 (FQ) | 4 | ||||
Take two: | 8 | Take one: | 4 | ||||
MGSC 2301 (AD) | MGSC 2301 (AD) | ||||||
INTB 1203 (IC and ER) | INTB 1203 (IC and ER) | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Concentration course | 4 | Concentration course | 4 | Elective | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
Business core | 4 | Business core | 4 | NUpath | 4 | ||
Business core | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
NUpath | 4 | BUSN 1103 | 1 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | Concentration course | 4 | NUpath | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
ENGW 3304 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ORGB 3201 | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | STRT 4501 | 4 | ||||
Concentration course | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/business-administration-combined-majors/business-administration-communication-studies-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Business Core Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
BUSN 1102 | Personal Skill Development for Business | 1 |
or COMM 1000 | Communication Studies at Northeastern | |
Accounting | ||
ACCT 1201 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
Business Statistics | ||
MGSC 2301 | Business Statistics | 4 |
Business Core Elective 1 | ||
INTB 1203 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | 4 |
or ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | |
Marketing | ||
MKTG 2201 | Introduction to Marketing | 4 |
Finance | ||
FINA 2201 | Financial Management | 4 |
Business Core Elective 2 | ||
ACCT 2301 | Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors | 4 |
or INNO 2301 | Innovation! | |
or MISM 2301 | Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies | |
or SCHM 2301 | Supply Chain and Operations Management |
Business Concentration Required
A concentration is required and may be chosen from the following list:
- Accounting
- Accounting and Advisory Services
- Brand Management
- Business Analytics
- Corporate Innovation
- Entrepreneurial Startups
- Family Business
- Finance
- Fintech
- Healthcare Management and Consulting
- International Business (available only as a second concentration)
- Management
- Management Information Systems
- Marketing
- Marketing Analytics
- Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship
- Supply Chain Management
Supporting Business Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Mathematics | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Calculus for Business and Economics | ||
Calculus 1 | ||
Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 1 | ||
Intensive Calculus for Engineers | ||
Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | ||
Macroeconomics and Microeconomics | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Principles of Macroeconomics | ||
Principles of Microeconomics |
Communication Studies Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Communication Studies Common Requirements | ||
COMM 1101 | Introduction to Communication Studies | 4 |
COMM 1112 | Public Speaking | 4 |
or COMM 1113 | Business and Professional Speaking | |
or COMM 2301 | Communication Research Methods | |
Foundation Course | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Persuasion and Rhetoric | ||
Communication Theory | ||
Principles of Organizational Communication | ||
Communication in a Digital Age | ||
Cluster Course | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Sex, Relationships, and Communication | ||
Global and Intercultural Communication | ||
Communication and Gender | ||
Communication Law | ||
Free Speech in Cyberspace | ||
Writing-Intensive | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Mobile Communication | ||
Health Communication | ||
Interpersonal Communication | ||
Communication and Inclusion | ||
Political Communication | ||
Communication Criticism | ||
Public Relations Principles | ||
Environmental Issues, Communication, and the Media | ||
Free Speech: Law and Practice | ||
Communication and Sexualities | ||
Theories of Conflict and Negotiation | ||
Nonverbal Social Interaction | ||
Youth and Communication Technology | ||
Crisis Communication and Image Management | ||
Communication Studies Electives | ||
Complete three additional electives. Choose from any communication studies courses not used to satisfy requirements above or related electives outside of communication studies: | 12 | |
Introduction to Photography and Photo Tools | ||
Video Basics and Video Tools | ||
Photography: Concept + Process | ||
Video: Sound and Image | ||
Making with Video, Sound, and Animation and Making with Video, Sound, and Animation Tools 1 | ||
Journalism 1: Fundamentals of Reporting and Writing | ||
Digital Storytelling and Social Media | ||
Design for Storytelling | ||
Video News Reporting and Producing | ||
The Newsroom | ||
Introduction to Film Production |
- 1
It is recommended that students taking Making with Video, Sound, and Animation (ARTF 1240) with Making with Video, Sound, and Animation Tools (ARTF 1241) should also take either Representational Drawing (ARTF 1200), Abstract Drawing (ARTF 1210), Elements of Visual Composition (ARTF 1220), Making with Form and Materials (ARTF 1230), Making with Video, Sound, and Animation (ARTF 1240), or Designing Interactive Experiences (ARTF 1250) in the same term. The other ARTF course may count toward the student's open electives or minor, if they have one.
Integrative Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Integrative Course | ||
MKTG 4504 | Advertising and Brand Promotion | 4 |
Capstone | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Strategic Communication Capstone | ||
Strategy in Action |
Business GPA Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA in business courses required
Business Cooperative Education
Complete one cooperative education experience.
Communication Studies Major Grade Requirement
No more than two grades below a C in communication studies courses may be used to satisfy degree requirements.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Four Years, Two Co-ops
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ACCT 1201 | 4 | COMM 1112, 1113, or 2301 | 4 | Communication studies elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
BUSN 1102 or COMM 1000 | 1 | MGSC 2301 | 4 | NUpath course | 4 | Elective | 4 |
COMM 1101 | 4 | MKTG 2201 | 4 | ||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | Communication studies foundation course | 4 | ||||
MATH 1231 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BUSN 1103 or EEAM 2000 | 1 | COOP 3945 | 0 | COOP 3945 | 0 | Elective | 4 |
FINA 2201 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
ECON 1115 or 1116 | 4 | ||||||
Business core option | 4 | ||||||
Communication studies cluster course | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
MKTG 4504 | 4 | COOP 3945 | 0 | COOP 3945 | 0 | Communication studies elective | 4 |
Business core option 1 | 4 | NUpath course | 4 | ||||
Communication studies writing-intensive 1 | 4 | ||||||
Concentration course | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Communication studies writing-intensive 2 | 4 | COMM 3409, ENGW 3304, ENGW 3314, or ENGW 3315 | 4 | ||||
Communication studies elective | 4 | COMM 4608 or STRT 4501 | 4 | ||||
Concentration course | 4 | Concentration course | 4 | ||||
Concentration course | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/business-administration-combined-majors/business-administration-criminal-justice-bs/
The combined major in business administration and criminal justice offers students the opportunity to integrate the study of business with relevant topics from criminal justice. Students complete core courses in business administration and criminal justice, as well as electives related to current topics, institutions, crime and systemic issues. This combined major highlights the intersection between business practices and criminal justice issues.
This combined major also allows students to explore areas where criminal justice issues impact business practices and operations. Some potential areas that are relevant to business include the structure of the criminal justice system, corruption, crime, corporate security, global criminal issues, and corporate and white-collar crime. These areas may be particularly appealing to students in accounting, finance, international business, management information systems, and supply chain.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Foundational Courses
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
BUSN 1102 | Personal Skill Development for Business | 1 |
or CRIM 1100 | Introduction to Criminal Justice |
BUSN 1103 | Professional Development for Business Co-op | 1 |
or EESH 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op |
Business Core Requirements
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
ACCT 1201 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
MGSC 2301 | Business Statistics | 4 |
Business Electives
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 16 |
| Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors | |
| Financial Management | |
| Innovation! | |
| International Business and Global Social Responsibility | |
| Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies | |
| Introduction to Marketing | |
| Organizational Behavior | |
| Supply Chain and Operations Management | |
Business Concentrations Required
A concentration is required and may be chosen from the following list:
Supporting Business Courses
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 4 |
| Calculus for Business and Economics (Complete 1 of the following:) | |
| Calculus 1 | |
| Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | |
| 4 |
| Principles of Macroeconomics | |
| Principles of Microeconomics | |
Business GPA Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA required in all business courses
Criminal Justice Requirements
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
CRIM 1100 | Introduction to Criminal Justice | 4 |
CRIM 1110 | Criminal Due Process (Complete 4 Courses) | 4 |
CRIM 1120 | Criminology | 4 |
CRIM 3600 | Criminal Justice Research Methods | 4 |
Current Criminal Justice Issues
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 4 |
| The Death Penalty | |
| Human Trafficking | |
| Corruption, Integrity, and Accountability (Cannot double count with integrative course) | |
| Crime, Media, and Politics | |
Crime Problems and Criminal Justice Institutions
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 4 |
| Courts: The Third Branch of Government | |
| Punishment in the Age of Mass Incarceration | |
| Corporate Security: Securing the Private Sector | |
| Policing a Democratic Society | |
| Restorative Justice: Transforming the System | |
Crime Problems
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 4 |
| Criminal Violence | |
| Global Criminology | |
| Psychology of Crime | |
| Organized Crime | |
| Political Crime and Terrorism | |
| Corporate and White-Collar Crime | |
| Criminal Law | |
| Addiction and Recovery | |
Systemic Issues in Criminal Justice
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 4 |
| Gender, Crime, and Justice | |
| Race, Crime, and Justice | |
Additional Criminal Justice Elective
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 4 |
Capstone
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
STRT 4501 | Strategy in Action | 4 |
Integrative Course
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 4 |
| Corruption, Integrity, and Accountability | |
| Corporate and White-Collar Crime | |
| Financial Crimes | |
Program Requirements
128 total semester hours required
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/business-administration-combined-majors/business-administration-psychology-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Business Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
ACCT 1201 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
ACCT 2301 | Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors | 4 |
FINA 2201 | Financial Management | 4 |
INNO 2301 | Innovation! | 4 |
INTB 1203 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | 4 |
MISM 2301 | Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies | 4 |
or SCHM 2301 | Supply Chain and Operations Management | |
MKTG 2201 | Introduction to Marketing | 4 |
ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
STRT 4501 | Strategy in Action | 4 |
Supporting Courses for Business | ||
ECON 1115 | Principles of Macroeconomics | 4 |
or ECON 1116 | Principles of Microeconomics | |
MATH 1231 | Calculus for Business and Economics | 4 |
Business Concentration
Complete one of the following concentrations.
- Accounting
- Accounting and Advisory Services
- Brand Management
- Business Analytics
- Corporate Innovation
- Entrepreneurial Startups
- Family Business
- Finance
- Fintech
- Healthcare Management and Consulting
- International Business (available only as a second concentration)
- Management
- Management Information Systems
- Marketing
- Marketing Analytics
- Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship
- Supply Chain Management
Psychology Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
PSYC 3400 | Personality | 4 |
PSYC 3402 | Social Psychology | 4 |
PSYC 3404 | Developmental Psychology | 4 |
PSYC 3466 | Cognition | 4 |
Statistics | ||
Complete one of the following. Students who receive transfer credit for the Advanced Placement Statistics exam may complete the 1 SH PSYC 2315 course (requires department permission). | 4-5 | |
Business Statistics | ||
Statistics in Psychological Research | ||
Required Seminar | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Seminar in Biological Psychology | ||
Seminar in Psycholinguistics | ||
Seminar in Cognition | ||
Seminar in Personality | ||
Seminar in Social Psychology | ||
Seminar in Clinical Psychology | ||
Seminar in Sensation and Perception | ||
Seminar in Cognitive Neuroscience | ||
Seminar in Developmental Psychology | ||
Seminar in Social and Affective Neuroscience | ||
Required Lab | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Laboratory in Research Design | ||
Laboratory in Learning and Motivation | ||
Laboratory in Biological Psychology | ||
Laboratory in Psycholinguistics | ||
Laboratory in Cognition | ||
Laboratory in Social Psychology | ||
Laboratory in Personality | ||
Laboratory in Sensation and Perception | ||
Laboratory in Affective Science | ||
Laboratory in Life-Span Emotional Development | ||
Laboratory in Developmental Psychology | ||
Psychology Electives | ||
Complete two PSYC courses not used to fulfill the requirements above: | 8 | |
PSYC 1001 to PSYC 5999 |
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
BUSN 1102 | Personal Skill Development for Business | 1 |
or PSYC 1000 | Psychology at Northeastern | |
Co-op Preparation | ||
Complete one of the following: | 1 | |
Professional Development for Business Co-op | ||
or EESC 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op |
Integrative Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
Business GPA Requirement
A minimum 2.000 GPA in business courses is required.
Psychology GPA Requirement
A minimum 2.000 GPA in psychology courses is required.
Business Cooperative Education
Complete one cooperative education experience.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PSYC 1101 | 4 | PSYC 2320 or MGSC 2301 | 4 | Vacation | Vacation | ||
MATH 1231 | 4 | PSYC 3402 | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1000 or BUSN 1102 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||
NU PATH DD | 4 | BUSINESS CORE 2 | 4 | ||||
BUSINESS CORE 1 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PSYC 3400 | 4 | PSYC 3404 | 4 | Vacation | Co-op | ||
PSYC 3466 | 4 | CONCENTRATION COURSE 1 | 4 | ||||
BUSINESS CORE 3 | 4 | BUSINESS CORE 5 | 4 | ||||
BUSINESS CORE 4 | 4 | ECON 1115 or 1116 | 4 | ||||
EESC 2000 or BUSN 1103 | 1 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 0 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | PSYC Elective | 4 | Elective 1 | 4 | Co-op | ||
ENGW 3304 or 3315 | 4 | Elective 2 | 4 | ||||
CONCENTRATION COURSE 2 | 4 | ||||||
BUSINESS CORE 6 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | PSYC Laboratory | 4 | Elective 3 | 4 | Co-op | ||
PSYC Elective | 4 | Elective 4 | 4 | ||||
CONCENTRATION COURSE 3 | 4 | ||||||
BUSINESS CORE 7 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 5 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | PSYC Seminar | 4 | |||||
BUSINESS CORE 8 | 4 | ||||||
BUSINESS CORE 9 | 4 | ||||||
CONCENTRATION COURSE 4 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/business-administration-combined-majors/business-administration-public-health-bs/
The combined Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and Public Health offers students an opportunity to study a curriculum that is synergistic with the growing field of healthcare and public health. This academic combination provides students with the knowledge and expertise needed to enter a multitude of careers upon graduation. The degree allows students the unique opportunity to better understand the business side of the healthcare industry and public health administration and prepares them to be leaders.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Business Administration Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
ACCT 1201 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
ACCT 2301 | Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors | 4 |
INTB 1203 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | 4 |
ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
Business Electives | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Financial Management | ||
Innovation! | ||
Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies | ||
Introduction to Marketing | ||
Supply Chain and Operations Management | ||
Supporting Courses for Business | ||
ECON 1116 and ECON 1126 | Principles of Microeconomics and Recitation for ECON 1116 | 4 |
MATH 1231 | Calculus for Business and Economics | 4 |
Business Concentration
Complete one of the following concentrations. Requirements for the concentrations are listed below.
- Accounting
- Accounting and Advisory Services
- Brand Management
- Business Analytics
- Corporate Innovation
- Entrepreneurial Startups
- Family Business
- Finance
- Fintech
- Healthcare Management and Consulting
- International Business (available only as a second concentration)
- Management
- Management Information Systems
- Marketing
- Marketing Analytics
- Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship
- Supply Chain Management
Public Health Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Public Health Core Courses | ||
PHTH 1260 | The American Healthcare System | 4 |
or PHTH 1261 | Comparative Healthcare Systems | |
PHTH 2300 | Communication Skills for the Health Professions | 4 |
or PHTH 2301 | Communication Skills for the Health Professions—Global | |
PHTH 2350 | Community and Public Health | 4 |
or PHTH 2351 | Community and Public Health - Global | |
PHTH 2515 | Healthcare Policy and Administration | 4 |
PHTH 4120 | Global Perspectives on Discrimination and Health | 4 |
PHTH 4202 | Principles of Epidemiology in Medicine and Public Health | 4 |
PHTH 4540 | Health Education and Program Planning | 4 |
Science Core Courses | ||
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Biology | ||
Complete one of the following options: | 8-10 | |
Option 1 | ||
Microbes and Society | ||
or BIOL 1143 | Biology and Society | |
The Human Organism | ||
Option 2 | ||
General Biology 1 and Lab for BIOL 1111 | ||
General Biology 2 and Lab for BIOL 1113 | ||
Social Science Course | ||
Complete one of the following: | 3-4 | |
Society and Behavior | ||
Health Communication | ||
Urban Economic Issues | ||
The (in)Visibility of (dis)Ability in Society | ||
Health Advocacy | ||
Social Psychology | ||
Developmental Psychology | ||
Learning and Motivation | ||
Globalization and Global Health | ||
International Food Policy | ||
Global Health | ||
Environmental Health and Climate Change | ||
Environmental Economics | ||
Environmental Health | ||
Law, Policy, and Human Rights | ||
Law and Economics | ||
Critical Issues in Health and Public Health Policy | ||
Healthcare Administration and Management | ||
Health Economics and Healthcare Policy | ||
Evaluating Healthcare Quality | ||
Economic Perspectives on Health Policy |
Supporting Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Statistics | ||
Complete 4 semester hours from the following: | 4 | |
Business Statistics | ||
or PHTH 2210 | Foundations of Biostatistics | |
Capstone | ||
Complete one of the following options: | 3-4 | |
DMSB Students | ||
Strategy in Action | ||
Bouvé Students | ||
Complete capstone through a capstone course, a capstone project, or an Honors Project. | ||
Capstone Course Options | ||
Complete one of the following: | ||
Evaluating Health Technologies | ||
Critical Issues in Health and Public Health Policy | ||
Addressing Rural Health Inequities | ||
Environmental Health | ||
Global Health | ||
Food, Nutrition, and Health | ||
Qualitative Methods | ||
Capstone Project Options | ||
Must complete 0-credit HSCI 4700 as prerequisite: | ||
Health Science Capstone—Service | ||
or HSCI 4730 | Health Science Capstone—Research | |
Honors Project Option | ||
Must meet the GPA requirement and complete both courses:* | ||
Junior/Senior Honors Project 1 and Junior/Senior Honors Project 2 | ||
*HSCI 4970 will count as 4 semester hours toward general electives | ||
Introduction to College | ||
Complete one of the following: | ||
BUSN 1102 | Personal Skill Development for Business | 1 |
or HSCI 1000 | College: An Introduction | |
Professional Development | ||
Complete one of the following: | ||
BUSN 1103 | Professional Development for Business Co-op | 1 |
or HSCI 2000 | Professional Development for Bouvé Co-op |
Integrative Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Healthcare Management, Innovation, and Design | ||
or PHTH 4511 | Healthcare Management |
Business GPA Requirement
A minimum 2.000 GPA is required in all business courses.
Business Cooperative Education Requirement
Complete one six-month co-op experience.
Public Health Major Requirement
A grade of C or higher is required for all BIOL, HSCI, and PHTH courses.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
DMSB Student Sample: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | ||
ACCT 1201 | 4 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ECON 1116 and ECON 1126 | 4 | ||
BUSN 1102 | 1 | INTB 1203 | 4 | PHTH core course | 4 | ||
MATH 1231 | 4 | PHTH 1260 | 4 | ||||
PSYC 1101 | 4 | BIOL course | 4 | ||||
BIOL course | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | |||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ACCT 2301 | 4 | BUSN 1103 | 1 | Concentration course | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
MGSC 2301 | 4 | FINA 2201 | 4 | General elective | 4 | ||
PHTH core course | 4 | PHTH core course | 4 | ||||
General elective | 4 | Business elective | 4 | ||||
Concentration course | 4 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | MGMT 3340 or PHTH 4511 | 4 | PHTH 4540 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
ENGW 3304 | 4 | PHTH 4202 | 4 | PHTH 4120 | 4 | ||
Business elective | 4 | ||||||
Concentration course | 4 | ||||||
4 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | STRT 4501 | 4 | ||||
General elective | 4 | Concentration course | 4 | ||||
Social science course | 4 | ||||||
General elective | 4 | ||||||
4 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
Bouvé Student Sample: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | ||
ACCT 1201 | 4 | INTB 1203 | 4 | ECON 1116 and ECON 1126 | 4 | ||
ENGW 1110 | 4 | PHTH 1260 | 4 | PHTH core course | 4 | ||
HSCI 1000 | 1 | PSYC 1101 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1231 | 4 | BIOL course | 4 | ||||
BIOL course | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | |||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ACCT 2301 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | PHTH core course | 4 | ||
FINA 2201 | 4 | General elective | 4 | Concentration course | 4 | ||
HSCI 2000 | 1 | ||||||
PHTH 2210 | 4 | ||||||
General elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 4 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
PHTH 4511 or MGMT 3340 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | PHTH 4120 | 4 | ||
PHTH core course | 4 | ENGW 3306 | 4 | PHTH 4540 | 4 | ||
Business elective | 4 | ||||||
Concentration course | 4 | ||||||
16 | 4 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
PHTH 4202 | 4 | Concentration course | 4 | ||||
Capstone course | 4 | Social science course | 4 | ||||
Concentration course | 4 | General electives | 8 | ||||
Business elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/business-administration-combined-majors/design-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Business Core Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Introduction to College | ||
BUSN 1102 | Personal Skill Development for Business | 1 |
or ARTF 1000 | Art and Design at Northeastern | |
Mathematics | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Calculus for Business and Economics | ||
Calculus 1 | ||
Math Fundamentals for Games | ||
Macroeconomics and Microeconomics | ||
ECON 1115 | Principles of Macroeconomics | 4 |
or ECON 1116 | Principles of Microeconomics |
Business Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Accounting | ||
ACCT 1201 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
Business Statistics | ||
MGSC 2301 | Business Statistics | 4 |
International Business/Social Responsibility | ||
INTB 1203 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | 4 |
Marketing | ||
MKTG 2201 | Introduction to Marketing | 4 |
Finance | ||
FINA 2201 | Financial Management | 4 |
Organizational Behavior | ||
ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
Strategy in Action | ||
STRT 4501 | Strategy in Action | 4 |
Business Core Option | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors | ||
Innovation! | ||
Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies | ||
Supply Chain and Operations Management | ||
Professional Development | ||
BUSN 1103 | Professional Development for Business Co-op | 1 |
or EEAM 2000 | Professional Development for Co-op |
Business Concentration
One concentration is required. A second concentration is optional.
- Accounting
- Accounting and Advisory Services
- Brand Management
- Business Analytics
- Corporate Innovation
- Entrepreneurial Startups
- Family Business
- Finance
- Fintech
- Healthcare Management and Consulting
- International Business (available only as a second concentration)
- Management
- Management Information Systems
- Marketing
- Marketing Analytics
- Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship
- Supply Chain Management
Design Requirements
Students interested in design PlusOne programs are recommended to consult with faculty coordinator and advisor during sophomore year to register for 5000-level courses in junior and senior years.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Art + Design Fundamentals Required | ||
ARTF 1220 | Elements of Visual Composition (with optional ARTF 1221) | 2 |
Art + Design Fundamentals Electives | ||
Complete three of the following: | 6 | |
Representational Drawing | ||
Abstract Drawing | ||
Making with Form and Materials and Making with Form and Materials Tools | ||
Making with Video, Sound, and Animation and Making with Video, Sound, and Animation Tools | ||
Designing Interactive Experiences and Designing Interactive Experiences Tools | ||
Design Required | ||
ARTG 1001 and ARTG 1002 | Design Perspectives: An Introduction to Design in the World and Seminar for Design Perspectives | 4 |
ARTG 1270 and ARTG 1271 | Design: Process + Practices and Studio for Design: Process + Practices | 4 |
ARTG 1290 and ARTG 1291 | Typographic Systems and Studio for Typographic Systems | 4 |
ARTG 2262 and ARTG 2263 | Prototyping with Code and Lab for ARTG 2262 (or ARTG Design Elective) 1 | 4 |
Art + Design History Elective | ||
Complete any one ARTH course. ARTH 1001 Visual Intelligence and ARTH 1002 Seminar in Visual Intelligence is recommended to fulfill this requirement. | 4 | |
Art + Design Elective | ||
Complete any one ARTD, ARTE, ARTF (4 SH), ARTG, ARTH, ARTS, or GAME course for which prerequisites have been met. | 4 | |
If any topics course is completed more than once, the additional completions may be allowed toward the electives. | ||
Degree Capstone Project | ||
ARTG 4550 | Design Degree Project | 4 |
- 1
For students interested in the PlusOne in Information Design and Data Visualization, speak with an advisor about an alternative course option to Prototyping with Code (ARTG 2262) and Lab for ARTG 2262 (ARTG 2263).
Design Option
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following options: | 8 | |
Experience Design Option | ||
Experience Design Principles | ||
Topics In Experience Design Inquiry | ||
Graphic Design Option | ||
Graphic Design Principles | ||
Topics In Graphic Design Inquiry | ||
Information Design Option | ||
Information Design Principles | ||
Topics in Information Design Inquiry | ||
Interaction Design Option | ||
Interaction Design Principles (with optional ARTG 2401) | ||
Topics In Interaction Design Inquiry |
- 2
For students interested in the PlusOne in Information Design and Data Visualization, speak with an advisor about an alternative course option to Topics in Information Design Inquiry (ARTG 3444).
Integrative Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Note: Integrative course is required above. | ||
Design Degree Project |
Business GPA Requirement
A minimum 2.000 GPA in business courses is required.
Business Cooperative Education
Complete one cooperative education experience.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study: Four Years, Two Co-ops in Summer 2/Fall
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ACCT 1201 | 4 | ARTG 1270 and ARTG 1271 | 4 | ARTG 1290 and ARTG 1291 | 4 | ARTF elective 2 | 2 |
ARTF 1220 (with optional ARTF 1221) | 2 | ECON 1115 or 1116 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ARTF elective 3 | 2 |
ARTF elective 1 | 2 | MGSC 2301 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
ARTG 1001 and ARTG 1002 | 4 | MATH elective | 4 | ||||
BUSN 1102 or ARTF 1000 | 1 | ||||||
ENGW 1111 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ARTG 2262 and ARTG 2263 | 4 | BUSN 1103 or EEAM 2000 | 1 | FINA 2201 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
INTB 1203 | 4 | ARTH elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||
MKTG 2201 | 4 | Business concentration introductory course | 4 | ||||
Design option level 1 | 4 | Business core option | 4 | ||||
Design option level 2 | 4 | ||||||
16 | 17 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Co-op | 0 | ENGW 3314 or 3315 | 4 | Business concentration elective 2 | 4 | Co-op | 0 |
ORGB 3201 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
A+D elective | 4 | ||||||
Business concentration elective 1 | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | 8 | 0 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Co-op | 0 | ARTG 4550 | 4 | ||||
STRT 4501 | 4 | ||||||
Business concentration | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
0 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/business-administration-law-bs/
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and Law program is designed for D'Amore-McKim School of Business students who seek careers in fields with frequent collaboration with lawyers or in heavily regulated industries or services. Offering knowledge and skills that are highly valued across business professions, this major will also be helpful for students who are interested in law school.
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
Business Core Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Foundational Courses | ||
BUSN 1102 | Personal Skill Development for Business | 1 |
BUSN 1103 | Professional Development for Business Co-op | 1 |
Required Courses | ||
ACCT 1201 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
ACCT 2301 | Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors | 4 |
FINA 2201 | Financial Management | 4 |
INTB 1203 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | 4 |
MGSC 2301 | Business Statistics | 4 |
ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
STRT 4501 | Strategy in Action | 4 |
Business Elective | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Innovation! | ||
Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies | ||
Introduction to Marketing | ||
Supply Chain and Operations Management |
Business Concentration Required
A concentration is required and may be chosen from the following:
- Accounting
- Accounting and Advisory Services
- Brand Management
- Business Analytics
- Corporate Innovation
- Entrepreneurial Startups
- Family Business
- Finance
- Fintech
- Healthcare Management and Consulting
- International Business (available only as a second concentration)
- Management
- Management Information Systems
- Marketing
- Marketing Analytics
- Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship
- Supply Chain Management
Supporting Business Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ECON 1115 | Principles of Macroeconomics | 4 |
or ECON 1116 | Principles of Microeconomics | |
MATH 1231 | Calculus for Business and Economics | 4 |
or MATH 1341 | Calculus 1 for Science and Engineering | |
or MATH 1241 | Calculus 1 | |
or MATH 1251 | Calculus and Differential Equations for Biology 1 | |
or MATH 1340 | Intensive Calculus for Engineers |
Law Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Core Requirements | ||
LAW 3101 | Introduction to Legal Studies 1: Law and Legal Reasoning | 4 |
LAW 3102 | Introduction to Legal Studies 2: Statutes and Regulations | 4 |
LAW 3130 | Introduction to Negotiation and Advocacy | 4 |
LAW 3140 | Data Regulation and Compliance | 4 |
LAW 3235 | Issues in Law and Public Policy | 4 |
Electives | ||
Please consult with your advisor to select courses that support your choice of business concentration. | ||
Complete a total of 12 semester hours. If choosing a 3-semester-hour course, register for a 1-semester-hour course concurrently. No more than four 1-semester-hour courses may be applied to this requirement. | 12 | |
Introduction to Law and Organizational Management | ||
Introduction to International Regulations and Business Strategies | ||
Introduction to Financial Transactions | ||
Introduction to Healthcare Compliance | ||
Introduction to Patient Records, Privacy, Security | ||
Introduction to Employee Rights and Employer Obligations | ||
Introduction to Antidiscrimination Law | ||
Introduction to Wages and Benefits | ||
Introduction to Intellectual Property and Media | ||
Introduction to Contract Drafting | ||
Introduction to Global Regulation of Artificial Intelligence | ||
Introduction to Sports Law, Business, and Society | ||
Introduction to Intellectual Property | ||
Introduction to Identifying and Securing Intellectual Property Rights | ||
Reflections on Law | ||
Writing on Legal issues | ||
Advanced Intellectual Property | ||
Patent Law and Practice | ||
Law and Economic Development | ||
Issues in Health Law and Policy | ||
Issues in Information Security Law | ||
Law and Inequality | ||
Issues in Law and Biotechnology | ||
Special Topics in Law |
Integrative Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Business | ||
ACCT 3304 | Business Law and Professional Ethics | 4 |
or FINA 4312 | Issues in Corporate Governance | |
or MGMT 3420 | Managing Human Capital | |
Law | ||
LAW 3120 | Introduction to Law and Strategy | 4 |
Business GPA Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA in business courses required
Business Cooperative Education
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one cooperative education experience: | ||
Co-op Work Experience | ||
or COOP 3946 | Co-op Work Experience--Half Time | |
or COOP 3947 | Co-op Work Experience Abroad--Half Time | |
or COOP 3948 | Co-op Work Experience Abroad |
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study: Fours Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ACCT 1201 | 4 | ACCT 2301 | 4 | FINA 2201 | 4 | EI NUpath or open elective | 4 |
BUSN 1102 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | ND NUpath | 4 | Open elective | 4 |
ECON 1115 or 1116 | 4 | INNO 2301, MISM 2301, MKTG 2201, or SCHM 2301 | 4 | ||||
INTB 1203 | 4 | MGSC 2301 | 4 | ||||
MATH 1231 | 4 | ||||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BUSN 1103 | 1 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | ORGB 3201 | 4 |
LAW 3101 | 4 | Concentration course 2 | 4 | ||||
LAW 3102 | 4 | ||||||
Concentration course 1 | 4 | ||||||
DD NUpath | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Concentration course 3 | 4 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Open elective | 4 |
DMSB integrative course | 4 | Open elective | 4 | ||||
LAW elective | 4 | ||||||
LAW 3120 | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Advanced writing | 4 | STRT 4501 | 4 | ||||
Concentration course 4 | 4 | LAW elective | 4 | ||||
LAW elective | 4 | LAW3235 | 4 | ||||
LAW 3130 | 4 | LAW 3140 | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/
- Accounting
- Accounting and Advisory Services
- Brand Management
- Business Analytics
- Corporate Innovation
- Entrepreneurial Startups
- Family Business
- Finance
- Fintech
- Global Business and Strategy
- Healthcare Management and Consulting
- International Business
- Management
- Management Information Systems
- Marketing
- Marketing Analytics
- Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship
- Supply Chain Management
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/accounting-advisory-services/
The accounting and advisory services concentration is aimed at D’Amore-McKim students who wish to pursue a career in advisory services. The concentration offers students an opportunity to obtain the skills necessary to enter advisory services. Students hired in advisory services work in interdisciplinary areas including mergers and acquisitions, risk consulting, process improvement, data analytics, and digital transformation. This concentration is an alternative to the standard accounting concentration, which many students pursue to prepare for CPA licensure. The accounting and advisory services concentration is well suited for students who are interested in taking a managerial or advisory role to support the strategic goals of an organization.
Concentration in Accounting and Advisory Services
Only one course may be double counted with another business concentration.
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
ACCT 3401 | Financial Reporting and Analysis 1 | 4 |
or ACCT 3402 | Financial Reporting and Financial Statement Analysis |
ACCT 3403 | Advisory Services and Emerging Accounting Systems | 4 |
ACCT 5220 | Data Analytics for Advisory Services | 4 |
or FINA 4335 | Computational Methods and Their Applications in Finance |
or MISM 2510 | Fundamentals of Information Analytics |
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 4 |
| Strategic Cost Analysis for Decision Making | |
| Income Tax Determination and Planning | |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/accounting/
A concentration in accounting aims to prepare the graduate for entry into public accounting or private industry in a highly valued career. Accounting is a dynamic profession that requires people to possess sound technical knowledge, critical thinking skills, superior interpersonal skills, and the ability to communicate effectively. Accountants hold senior management positions in private companies in business or industry, public accounting firms, and government agencies.
To prepare for an accounting career, students take courses in financial reporting, managerial accounting, and intermediate accounting, with additional elective courses available for more specialized studies in strategic cost analysis, auditing and other assurance services, income tax planning, and advisory services and emerging accounting systems. Students wishing to sit for the CPA exam may combine the BSBA with a concentration in accounting with the Master of Science in Accounting (five-year BSBA/MSA program).
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/brand-management/
Think about some of your favorite brands—chances are, there is a high-powered brand manager working behind the scenes to ensure the brand resonates with you, one of its target consumers. Brand managers oversee the integrity of a brand across all marketing activities in tech, consumer packaged goods (CPG), and service industries. The position of brand manager requires strategic thinking, focus on the customer experience, communication with multiple stakeholders and cross-functional teams, creativity, and analytical skills. Brand managers are creative, organized multitaskers who often serve as the liaison between the marketing group, design team, and engineers to oversee the consistency of the brand image. While every day is different, typical activities of a brand manager include conducting and analyzing research to identify brand opportunities, understanding market trends and competitive landscape, creating and maintaining brand marketing budget, managing cross-platform brand communication strategy, developing the brand story, executing marketing and advertising campaigns, and overseeing the overall health of a brand. When managing a brand’s products or services in a tech firm, brand and product managers may also be involved in ideation, prototyping, user experience (UX) testing, and business casing. This concentration offers the opportunity to learn these skills across coursework in marketing, consumer behavior, advertising, new product development, marketing analytics, project management, demand planning and forecasting, and product innovation. As such, the core brand management course paired with a flexible, yet focused list of electives supports students in the aspects of brand management that are most relevant for their future career prospects.
Concentration in Brand Management
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Course | ||
MKTG 3720 | Brand Management | 4 |
Electives | ||
Complete three electives, with at least 8 credits from MKTG courses: | 12 | |
Innovation! | ||
Project Management | ||
Enabling Technologies for Consumer Engagement | ||
Marketing Research | ||
or MKTG 3402 | Gaining Insights from Consumer Data | |
Managing Customer Engagement in a Service World | ||
Advertising and Brand Promotion | ||
Consumer Behavior | ||
New Product Development | ||
or ENTR 3330 | Design Thinking for Startups | |
or INNO 3335 | Product Innovation and Portfolio Management | |
Understanding the Platform Economy | ||
A maximum of one course may be applied to requirements of a second concentration. |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/business-analytics/
Organizations can make smarter decisions when they effectively harness the power of data. The business analytics concentration is designed to provide students with the analytical skills, techniques, and perspectives required to understand, analyze, and interpret datasets of various sizes and content. This knowledge and skill set can be used to help companies improve decision making in increasingly complex and interconnected business environments and create measurable improvements in business performance.
This concentration offers courses that cover the fundamentals of data analysis and management; information visualization; and descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive analytic techniques. These techniques are often based on artificial intelligence, machine learning, and data mining. Courses are grounded in relevant theory and principles but also explore how to apply these concepts to investigate realistic datasets by using a variety of innovative computational tools and programming languages. These may include Python, R, SQL, and Tableau. Students have the opportunity to develop technical and problem-solving skills that are in high demand by employers and to apply those skills through both classroom activities and co-ops focused on business analytics.
Analytics can be employed in many different parts of an organization. Therefore, students are encouraged to consider completing a dual concentration in business analytics and another area. Graduates of this program have a wide range of career paths to suit their interests. Professional options include business or information analyst, consultant, and project manager. Graduates may also become specialists within a specific department or functional area, such as financial services, accounting, marketing, or manufacturing.
Concentration in Business Analytics
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Only one course may double count between another concentration or minor. | ||
Required Courses | ||
MISM 2510 | Fundamentals of Information Analytics | 4 |
MISM 3403 | Data Management for Business | 4 |
or MISM 3405 | Data Wrangling for Business Analytics | |
MISM 3501 | Information Visualization for Business | 4 |
Elective | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Data Mining for Business | ||
Modeling for Business Analytics | ||
Special Topics in Management Information Systems |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/corporate-innovation/
Concentration in Corporate Innovation
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
INNO 2301 | Innovation! | 4 |
INNO 4504 | Integrated Studies in Corporate Innovation | 4 |
Electives | ||
Complete two electives, one of which may come from the additional electives list: | 8 | |
Industry Disruption and Corporate Transformation | ||
Product Innovation and Portfolio Management | ||
Growth, Acquisitions, and Alliances | ||
Additional Electives | ||
Understanding Family Enterprise | ||
Marketing Strategies for Startups | ||
Global Family Business Leadership | ||
Special Topics in Entrepreneurship | ||
Entrepreneurial Finance and Private Equity | ||
Global Social Enterprise | ||
Negotiating in Business | ||
Healthcare Management, Innovation, and Design | ||
Project Management | ||
Strategic Analysis and Decision Making | ||
One course from an approved Dialogue may count toward a concentration elective. |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/entrepreneurial-startups/
Concentration in Entrepreneurial Startups
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
INNO 2301 | Innovation! | 4 |
ENTR 4501 | Integrated Studies in Entrepreneurial Startups | 4 |
Electives | ||
Complete two electives, one of which may come from the Additional Electives list: | 8 | |
Marketing Strategies for Startups | ||
Business Model Design and Innovation | ||
Design Thinking for Startups | ||
Additional Electives | ||
Understanding Family Enterprise | ||
Global Family Business Leadership | ||
Bridging Conflict, Creating Diversity | ||
Entrepreneurial Venture Growth Strategies | ||
Special Topics in Entrepreneurship | ||
Entrepreneurial Finance and Private Equity | ||
Global Social Enterprise | ||
Industry Disruption and Corporate Transformation | ||
Social Responsibility of Business in an Age of Inequality | ||
Negotiating in Business | ||
One course from an approved Dialogue may count toward an elective. |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/family-business/
Concentration in Family Business
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
INNO 2301 | Innovation! | 4 |
ENTR 4503 | Integrated Studies in Family Business | 4 |
Electives | ||
Complete two electives, one of which may come from the Additional Elective list: | 8 | |
Understanding Family Enterprise | ||
Managing and Growing the Family Business | ||
Consulting Operations Growth in SMEs | ||
Additional Electives | ||
Marketing Strategies for Startups | ||
Examining Family Business Dynamics Through Film | ||
Global Family Business Leadership | ||
Special Topics in Entrepreneurship | ||
Entrepreneurial Finance and Private Equity | ||
Global Social Enterprise | ||
Industry Disruption and Corporate Transformation | ||
Negotiating in Business | ||
Students may use one course from an approved Dialogue experience toward the elective area of the concentration. |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/finance/
The role of people trained in finance is expanding rapidly within the business world. Changes on the financial scene—rising securities prices, fluctuating inflation, currency values and interest rates, and globalization of markets—have created an awareness that financial knowledge is essential to the effective management of business firms and many other types of organizations.
Finance is the management of real and monetary assets for businesses, financial institutions, nonprofit organizations, governments, and individuals. Finance courses draw on accounting principles, economic theory, and quantitative methods. These courses develop methods to direct the way capital is acquired and managed. Students are exposed to economic and financial systems and how they operate. They also are given an opportunity to analyze economic trends and indicators and to apply this analysis to financial decision making.
Students may specialize in one or more of the following areas: corporate finance, investment management and analysis, risk management, and real estate. The program is designed to prepare students for careers in corporate financial management, security analysis, investment management, security or insurance brokerage, credit management, and risk management with corporations, banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions.
Concentration in Finance
Note: Students may double count up to one course in another business concentration.
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
FINA 3301 | Corporate Finance | 4 |
or FINA 3303 | Investments |
| 12 |
| Sustainability in the Business Environment | |
| Impact Investing and Social Finance |
| Fintech and Financial Innovation | |
| Corporate Finance (if not selected as a required course) | |
| Investments (if not selected as a required course) | |
| Real Estate Principles | |
| Responsible Investing | |
| Portfolio Management | |
| Behavioral Finance | |
| Working Capital Management | |
| Issues in Corporate Governance | |
| International Financial Management | |
| Emerging Financial Markets | |
| Computational Methods and Their Applications in Finance | |
| Blockchain Applications in Finance | |
| Applied Financial Econometrics and Data Modeling | |
| Financial Modeling | |
| Machine Learning in Finance | |
| Valuation and Value Creation | |
| Personal Financial Planning | |
| Mergers and Acquisitions | |
| Algorithmic and Robo-Trading | |
| Financial Risk Management | |
| Investment Banking | |
| Real Estate Finance | |
| Credit Analysis | |
| Core Topics in Alternative Investments | |
| Turnaround Management | |
| Fixed-Income Securities | |
| Fintech Experiential Project | |
| Entrepreneurial Finance and Private Equity | |
| Special Topics in Finance | |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/fintech/
Concentration in Fintech
Only one course may be double counted with another concentration. In addition, only one course outside of Finance may be applied to the concentration.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
FINA 3303 | Investments | 4 |
or FINA 3301 | Corporate Finance | |
Choose one option below: | 4 | |
Programming with Data and Data Science Programming Practicum | ||
Computational Methods and Their Applications in Finance | ||
Electives | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Mobile Application Development | ||
Fintech and Financial Innovation | ||
Blockchain Applications in Finance | ||
Applied Financial Econometrics and Data Modeling | ||
Machine Learning in Finance | ||
Algorithmic and Robo-Trading | ||
Fintech Experiential Project |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/global-business-strategy/
The global business and strategy concentration examines how a corporation chooses goals and positions itself in the global business environment to achieve these performance objectives. The focus is on analyzing firms and industries in a continuously changing global context, i.e., across multiple countries, markets, competitors, independent nation-state governments, and multilateral organizations. The courses combine analytical thinking with the consideration of different national and cultural environments to illuminate global strategy, how governments and multilateral organizations set and affect the rules of engagement in global business, and how firms and institutions can develop and change strategy to be successful over time. Students can investigate the diversity and complexity of doing business in different economic and political systems.
The concentration is designed to help students prepare for positions in strategic planning and analysis in multinational companies, consulting firms, and government agencies and multilateral organizations, as well as in global business development in new startups and small enterprises.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/healthcare-management-consulting/
Concentration in Healthcare Management and Consulting
Note: Students may double count up to one course in another business concentration.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
MGMT 3340 | Healthcare Management, Innovation, and Design | 4 |
SCHM 3315 | Managing Healthcare Operations and Supply Chain | 4 |
Implementation/Consulting Elective | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
The Consulting Environment | ||
International Entrepreneurship and Innovation Consulting | ||
Negotiating in Business | ||
Managing Organizational Change and Disruption | ||
Project Management | ||
Managing Human Capital | ||
Workforce Analytics | ||
Management Consulting in Organizations | ||
Information Visualization for Business | ||
Data Mining for Business | ||
Interdisciplinary Healthcare Focus | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Medical Anthropology | ||
Health Communication | ||
Health Economics and Healthcare Policy | ||
Research Methods for Human Services | ||
Introduction to Healthcare Systems Engineering | ||
Healthcare Policy and Administration | ||
Critical Issues in Health and Public Health Policy | ||
Sociology of Health and Illness |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/international-business/
Concentration in International Business
Note: Students may double count up to one course in another business concentration.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
INTB 1203 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | 4 |
or INTB 1209 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | |
Complete one or both of the following: | 4-8 | |
Competing to Win in Emerging Markets | ||
Cultural Aspects of International Business | ||
Electives | ||
Complete two of the following courses (one if both courses above selected). | 4-8 | |
Note: One course can also count toward a different business concentration. | ||
Managing Internationally | ||
International Business Management and Environment | ||
Special Topics in International Business | ||
International Functional Knowledge | ||
Global Entrepreneurship | ||
International Financial Management | ||
Global Social Enterprise | ||
International Marketing | ||
Global Supply Chain Strategy | ||
Electives not listed may be approved via the undergraduate dean’s office. |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/management-information-systems/
In the global information age, success for organizations requires the ability to manage, analyze, and use information effectively. To that end, the goal of the Management Information Systems concentration is to teach future managers how to manage and utilize data and information technology (IT) to help both individuals and organizations perform more efficiently and effectively. This can lead the student in two career directions:
-
To become a professional in the cross-functional information management, business analytics, and data quality and governance functions of a company or in an IT or data-enabled strategic business transformation initiative.
-
To accelerate and enhance a data-informed or data leadership career in organizations or another functional area such as finance, marketing, research and development, innovation, accounting, workforce management, strategic management, or acquisitions.
Understanding how to get the right information in the right form and format to the right people at the right time is essential in today’s business world, especially when companies and the individuals that do this well are achieving significant competitive advantages. Students have the opportunity to explore new, cutting-edge approaches that allow them to use the powerful resource of information to its greatest advantage. These approaches often use analytical concepts such as information visualization, artificial intelligence, and data mining. The importance of information privacy and security is also emphasized. Students have the opportunity to develop technical and problem-solving skills that are in high demand by employers, and to apply those skills through both classroom activities and co-ops focused on information management or business analytics.
Managers in the information management function need to interact frequently with other managers throughout an organization. Therefore, students are also encouraged to complete a dual concentration in information management and another area of business. Graduates of this program have a wide range of career paths that suit their particular interests. Professional options include Business/Systems/Information Analyst, Database Manager or Designer, Data Architect or Data Strategist, Information Product Designer/Manager, Data Quality Manager, Data Governance Manager, IT or Data Project Manager, Consultant, and IT or Data Specialist or Strategist within other departments, such as financial services, accounting, marketing, R&D, manufacturing, customer service, and risk management and compliance. Executive positions include Chief Data Officer or Chief Information Officer.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/management/
Managing—whether it’s people, projects, or programs—is challenging and requires a considerable range of knowledge and skills. Effective managers must know the business, be interpersonally competent, behave ethically, and diagnose and deal with human and organizational dynamics. The aim of the management concentration is to increase both managerial knowledge and management skills. This involves both studying and practicing topics such as motivation, leadership, negotiation, conflict resolution, project management, managing teams, organizational change, and their impact on business results.
Management concentrators participate in vibrant co-op experiences spanning a diverse range of business functions, such as business analytics, human resources, client and sales support, and project management. Many students who concentrate in management decide to get a second concentration, giving them the ability to work in teams and manage other people in whatever arena they find themselves.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/marketing-analytics/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Concentration in Marketing Analytics
Note: Students may double count up to one course in another business concentration.
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Required Courses | ||
MKTG 2602 | Quantitative Analysis of Consumer Data | 4 |
MKTG 3402 | Gaining Insights from Consumer Data | 4 |
MKTG 3501 | Marketing Analytics | 4 |
Elective | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4-5 | |
Fundamentals of Computer Science 1 and Lab for CS 2500 | ||
Programming with Data and Data Science Programming Practicum |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/marketing/
Aspiring marketers at the D'Amore-McKim School of Business have an opportunity to learn how brands, customers, and organizations impact business performance and society by creating, communicating, and delivering value to customers. The concentration embraces an approach that is analytical, creative, and practice oriented. Students receive instruction from award-winning research and teaching faculty who share their knowledge to help empower the next generation of marketing leaders.
The concentration in marketing encourages students to examine marketing as a driver of business growth, while considering the ethical and sustainable practices that are necessary for business and societal benefit.
The building blocks of the marketing concentration require courses in marketing research or analysis of customer data followed by a tailored set of electives to suit different student goals and interests.
The concentration aims to prepare students with the knowledge and skills to pursue careers in a broad range of professional settings including, but not limited to, digital marketing management, social media marketing, marketing analysis, data analysis, marketing consulting, UX design, content strategy, consumer insights analysis, sales management, and product and brand management.
The marketing concentration is available to students taking the BSBA or BSIB degree within the D’Amore-McKim School of Business and in most D’Amore-McKim combined majors . Other marketing-related options available to students include a minor in marketing and both concentrations and minors in brand management and marketing analytics.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/social-innovation-entrepreneurship/
Social entrepreneurship involves creating new products, services, or programs to address social or environmental needs. The Business Concentration in Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship is designed to prepare students from any background or area of study with the knowledge, skills, and experience to launch a new venture or project focused on creating social change through business, partner or work with innovation-driven nonprofit and for-profit social enterprises, work for a business in any industry with an emerging strategic commitment to positive social impact, work in the social finance and impact-investing sectors within the financial services industry, and create and lead intrapreneurial ventures and projects in any business or industry that evidence a commitment to the “stakeholder” model of business.
These five areas fall within the rapidly growing segments of the global economy in which social returns are elevated alongside financial returns in order to create a more equitable and inclusive society. Students will consider ethical and social issues in creating, building, managing, and growing small, medium, and large businesses. The concentration includes a structured community engagement and service requirement, either through participation in international fieldwork (Dialogues, Alternative Spring Break, or other embedded travel programs) and/or local community service programs. Students will have the opportunity to develop specific skill sets in entrepreneurial thinking and critical analysis, creative problem solving, professional communications (writing and presentations), working in diverse and multicultural teams, and interdisciplinary research and data analysis.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/concentrations/supply-chain-management/
From the Fortune 500 manufacturer to the small firm that produces, sells, or distributes products, all companies have a supply chain function that must be effectively managed if they are to be competitive. A supply chain manager is typically involved in making critical decisions about such matters as procurement of supplies and/or services, demand planning and forecasting, inventory policies, order fulfillment, transportation of company’s materials and products, warehouse and distribution operations, location of facilities, managing interfirm relationships, and customer service. As companies become increasingly involved in global markets as both buyers and sellers, supply chain managers play a major role not only in assessing the feasibility of international activity but also in developing supply and distribution networks to support that involvement. Because supply chain managers frequently interact with those involved in other areas of management, many supply chain management students have chosen to complete a second concentration in such areas as marketing, management information systems, finance, or entrepreneurship.
There are many career options for supply chain management students. In addition to finding career opportunities with manufacturers, retailers, and distributors, supply chain management students may find similar opportunities with companies that sell supply chain services; consulting firms; financial institutions; healthcare firms; and government agencies at the federal, state, and local levels.
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/
Students who wish to enter one of the minor programs listed below should complete the online minor form accessible via the D'Amore-McKim School of Business Undergraduate Programs website. Students who complete all required courses successfully and have earned at least a C (2.000) average in them will be awarded the minor at graduation.
- Accounting and Advisory Services, Minor
- Brand Management, Minor
- Business Administration, Minor
- Business Analytics, Minor
- Consulting, Minor
- Corporate Innovation, Minor
- Emerging Markets, Minor
- Entrepreneurial Startups, Minor
- Family Business, Minor
- Management Information Systems, Minor
- Managing Human Capital, Minor
- Marketing Analytics, Minor
- Marketing, Minor
- Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Minor
- Strategy, Minor
- Supply Chain Management, Minor
- Sustainable Business Practices, Minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/accounting-advisory-services-minor/
The accounting and advisory services minor is aimed at nonbusiness students who wish to complement their current studies with a focus in accounting and advisory services. Accounting knowledge is the foundation for business decision makers to make sound judgments and support the operational and strategic decisions in a firm. Importantly, public accounting firms are hiring students from nonaccounting disciplines for their advisory services practices. These students work in interdisciplinary areas including mergers and acquisitions, risk management, operations, data analytics, and digital transformation where accounting knowledge from this minor will provide them with a competitive advantage. Students pursuing the minor may select among accounting courses that explore topics such as financial reporting, advisory services and emerging accounting systems, strategic cost analysis, and tax planning. Students can also choose courses from other disciplines that would benefit from accounting knowledge such as engineering, computer science, and healthcare.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified. The accounting and advisory services minor is not open to D'Amore-McKim students or students pursuing a combined major with the D'Amore-McKim School of Business.
Required Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ACCT 1209 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
ACCT 2301 | Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors | 4 |
Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Financial Reporting and Analysis 1 | ||
Financial Reporting and Financial Statement Analysis | ||
Advisory Services and Emerging Accounting Systems | ||
Strategic Cost Analysis for Decision Making | ||
Income Tax Determination and Planning | ||
Data Analytics for Advisory Services |
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Business Law and Professional Ethics | ||
Financial Reporting and Analysis 1 | ||
Financial Reporting and Financial Statement Analysis | ||
Advisory Services and Emerging Accounting Systems | ||
Strategic Cost Analysis for Decision Making | ||
Auditing and Other Assurance Services | ||
Income Tax Determination and Planning | ||
Financial Reporting and Analysis 2 | ||
Data Analytics for Advisory Services | ||
Engineering Project Management | ||
Engineering Database Systems | ||
Introduction to Healthcare Systems Engineering | ||
Engineering Economy | ||
Healthcare Systems Modeling and Analysis | ||
Lean Concepts and Applications | ||
Principles of Information Science | ||
Information System Design and Development |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/brand-management-minor/
Think about some of your favorite brands—chances are, there is a high-powered brand manager working behind the scenes to ensure the brand resonates with you, one of its target consumers. Brand managers oversee the integrity of a brand across all marketing activities in tech, consumer packaged goods (CPG), and service industries. The position of brand manager requires strategic thinking, focus on the customer experience, communication with multiple stakeholders and cross-functional teams, creativity, and analytical skills. Brand managers are creative, organized multitaskers, who often serve as the liaison between the marketing group, design team, and engineers to oversee the consistency of the brand image. While every day is different, typical activities of a brand manager include conducting and analyzing research to identify brand opportunities, understanding market trends and competitive landscape, creating and maintaining brand marketing budget, managing cross-platform brand communication strategy, developing the brand story, executing marketing and advertising campaigns, and overseeing the overall health of a brand. When managing a brand’s products or services in a tech firm, brand and product managers may also be involved in ideation, prototyping, user experience (UX) testing, and business casing. This minor offers the opportunity to learn these skills across coursework in marketing, consumer behavior, advertising, new product development, marketing analytics, project management, demand planning and forecasting, and product innovation. As such, the required courses, paired with a flexible, yet focused list of electives, support students in the aspects of brand management that are most relevant for their future career prospects.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Note: Students in the D'Amore-McKim School of Business or in a combined major with D'Amore McKim School of Business are not allowed to pursue this minor.
Required Courses
Electives
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 8 |
| Innovation! | |
| Project Management | |
| Enabling Technologies for Consumer Engagement | |
| Marketing Research | |
| Gaining Insights from Consumer Data |
| Managing Customer Engagement in a Service World | |
| Advertising and Brand Promotion | |
| Consumer Behavior | |
| New Product Development | |
| Design Thinking for Startups |
| Product Innovation and Portfolio Management |
| Understanding the Platform Economy | |
GPA Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA required in all courses completed
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/business-administration-minor/
The minor in business administration introduces nonbusiness students to the key functional areas in business, providing a broad overview of the business world. The minor is available to nonbusiness students only.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Accounting
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
ACCT 1209 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
Organizational Behavior
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
ORGB 3209 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
Finance
Marketing
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
MKTG 2209 | Introduction to Marketing | 4 |
Business Elective
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 4 |
| The Entrepreneurial Universe | |
| Understanding Family Enterprise | |
| Personal Finance | |
| Sustainability in the Business Environment | |
| Global Social Enterprise | |
| Innovation! | |
| Social Responsibility of Business in an Age of Inequality | |
| International Business and Global Social Responsibility | |
| Competing to Win in Emerging Markets | |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/business-analytics-minor/
The business analytics minor is open to non-business undergraduate students with any major and offers analytics courses from a business decision-making perspective. The goal of these courses is to help students develop data-driven insights into business problems and solutions, along with the skills to communicate these insights effectively across the organization. The courses include both foundational courses, those geared toward more specific data analytics challenges, and those that apply analytical techniques to specific functional areas. Business analytics courses are grounded in relevant theory and principles and explore real-world problems and data. The courses explore analytics techniques and topics such as information visualization, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and data mining. Course tools are selected based on their effectiveness, usefulness, and their widespread use by employers. Depending on the courses chosen, students can develop skills using packages and languages such as R, Python, SQL, and Tableau. Students have the opportunity to develop technical and problem-solving skills that are in high demand by many types of organizations. The business analytics minor can fit well with any majors across colleges and schools.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified. Starting Fall 2021 the Business Analytics minor is available to non-business majors only .
Required Course
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
MISM 2510 | Fundamentals of Information Analytics | 4 |
Electives
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 12 |
| |
| Applied Econometrics | |
| Computational Methods for Data Analytics | |
| Computational Methods and Their Applications in Finance | |
| Digital Storytelling and Social Media | |
| Workforce Analytics | |
| Data Management for Business | |
| Information Visualization for Business | |
| Data Mining for Business | |
| Modeling for Business Analytics | |
| Special Topics in Management Information Systems | |
| Marketing Analytics | |
| Supply Chain Analytics and Emerging Technologies | |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/consulting-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Students may only double-count one course in the minor toward their major, concentration, or another minor.
Required Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
BUSN 3110 | The Consulting Environment | 4 |
MGMT 4550 | Management Consulting in Organizations | 4 |
Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Consulting Skills | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
International Entrepreneurship and Innovation Consulting | ||
Management Consulting Abroad | ||
Turnaround Management | ||
Negotiating in Business | ||
Managing Organizational Change and Disruption | ||
Project Management | ||
The Management Practices of Great Organizations | ||
Workforce Analytics | ||
Strategic Analysis and Decision Making | ||
Consulting Contexts | ||
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Advisory Services and Emerging Accounting Systems | ||
Strategic Cost Analysis for Decision Making | ||
Introduction to Databases | ||
Foundations of Cybersecurity | ||
Foundations of Data Science | ||
Engineering Project Management | ||
Design Thinking for Startups | ||
Consulting Operations Growth in SMEs | ||
Mergers and Acquisitions | ||
Investment Banking | ||
Introduction to Healthcare Systems Engineering | ||
Logistics and Supply Chain Management | ||
Facilities Planning and Material Handling | ||
Healthcare Systems Modeling and Analysis | ||
Data Mining for Engineering Applications | ||
Competing to Win in Emerging Markets | ||
Power and Influence | ||
Healthcare Management, Innovation, and Design | ||
Managing Human Capital | ||
Marketing Management | ||
Consumer Behavior | ||
Pharmaceutical Industry |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/corporate-innovation-minor/
Corporate innovation is a series of processes by which established companies promote, design, and pursue innovation opportunities that can result in new products, services, and/or business models. It entails R&D activities, product development, internal venture accelerators, acquisitions, and alliances. Innovation is the most powerful competitive weapon for a corporation that wants to ensure growth and relevance over time.
The corporate innovation minor is designed to prepare students to develop new businesses, products, services, or processes inside of an existing organization to create value and generate new revenue growth through entrepreneurial thought and action. A minor in corporate innovation seeks to develop students to be agents of change and renewal within established companies, aspiring to leading roles in areas such as product development, new business research, and innovation-related projects. This minor targets students with co-op aspirations that involve positions within corporations such as entry-level product line management, project management, consulting, and new product and service development.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified. The minor is not available to D'Amore-McKim School of Business students or students pursuing a combined major with the D'Amore-McKim School of Business.
Required Course
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
INNO 2301 | Innovation! | 4 |
Electives
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 12 |
| Industry Disruption and Corporate Transformation | |
| Product Innovation and Portfolio Management | |
| Growth, Acquisitions, and Alliances | |
| Integrated Studies in Corporate Innovation | |
| Design Process Context and Systems | |
| Experience Design Principles | |
| Software Development | |
| Mobile Application Development | |
| Web Development | |
| The Entrepreneurial Universe | |
| Global Family Business Leadership | |
| The Business of Games | |
| Engineering Design | |
| Product Development for Engineers | |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/emerging-markets-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Emerging Markets
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Business Decision Making in Developed Country Environments and International Business Decision Making in Emerging Markets | ||
Competing to Win in Emerging Markets | ||
Special Topics in International Business |
Field Study
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Field study as preapproved by the director of the emerging markets minor and/or D’Amore-McKim undergraduate dean’s office. Please contact the D’Amore-McKim academic advising office to confirm option(s). | 4 | |
Students may undertake 4 SH of independent research with approval. |
Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Introduction to African Studies | ||
Global Markets and Local Culture | ||
East Asian Studies | ||
Modern Chinese History and Culture | ||
or HIST 1500 | Modern Chinese History and Culture | |
Latin American Culture, History, and Politics | ||
Global and Intercultural Communication | ||
Colonialism/Imperialism | ||
Global Social Enterprise | ||
Cultural Aspects of International Business | ||
International Conflict and Negotiation | ||
Security, Culture, Power | ||
International Political Economy | ||
International Law | ||
Politics of Developing Nations |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/entrepreneurial-startups-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified. Students in the D'Amore-McKim School of Business or pursuing a combined major with the D'Amore-McKim School of Business may not pursue this minor.
Required Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
INNO 2301 | Innovation! | 4 |
Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete three of the following, one of which may be chosen from the additional elective options list: | 12 | |
Marketing Strategies for Startups | ||
Business Model Design and Innovation | ||
Design Thinking for Startups | ||
Integrated Studies in Entrepreneurial Startups | ||
Additional Elective Options | ||
One of the following may fulfill an elective: | ||
Design Process Context and Systems | ||
Experience Design Principles | ||
Software Development | ||
Mobile Application Development | ||
Web Development | ||
The Entrepreneurial Universe | ||
Global Family Business Leadership | ||
Bridging Conflict, Creating Diversity | ||
Entrepreneurial Venture Growth Strategies | ||
The Business of Games | ||
Engineering Design (Enginerring Students Only) | ||
Product Development for Engineers (Enginerring Students Only) |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/family-business-minor/
A family business is a commercial organization owned or controlled by members of a single family or extended family, including relatives related by blood, marriage, or adoption. Family controlled companies are a dominant form of enterprise worldwide. Due to the inextricable link between family and the business, family firms must grapple with unique challenges in that the business decisions are often intertwined with family dynamics, as in the case of succession planning and corporate governance. The purpose of this minor is to provide insight and understanding of the distinct challenges, opportunities, and practices of family/owner-controlled companies.
The minor covers family and business issues of family firms, including family values and culture, managing conflict, sibling rivalry, entitlement, hiring family and nonfamily employees, management of the family business, facilitating growth and change, and succession planning. This minor is intended for those contemplating a career in a family business and for those who plan to consult or provide professional services to family businesses. It will present both a theoretical framework for understanding the family form of business and a practical perspective on working for, or consulting to, a family/owner-controlled business.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified. The minor is not available to D'Amore-McKim School of Business students nor students pursuing a combined major with the D'Amore-McKim School of Business.
Required Course
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
INNO 2301 | Innovation! | 4 |
Electives
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 12 |
| Understanding Family Enterprise | |
| Managing and Growing the Family Business | |
| Consulting Operations Growth in SMEs | |
| Integrated Studies in Family Business | |
| Design Process Context and Systems | |
| Experience Design Principles | |
| Software Development | |
| Mobile Application Development | |
| Web Development | |
| The Entrepreneurial Universe | |
| Examining Family Business Dynamics Through Film | |
| Global Family Business Leadership | |
| The Business of Games | |
| Engineering Design (Enginerring Students Only) | |
| Product Development for Engineers (Enginerring Students Only) | |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/management-information-systems-minor/
The management information systems minor is open to nonbusiness undergraduate students with any major and offers contemporary information-focused courses from a global business perspective. The goal of these courses is to show students how to use and manage data and information technology (IT) to help both individuals and organizations perform more efficiently and effectively. The minor includes both fundamental courses and those geared toward more specific information management challenges. These courses will include real-world examples, grounded in relevant theories and principles, and will be reinforced using appropriate information tools and systems to gain the necessary skills and knowledge for tomorrow’s work environment. The MMIS minor requires every student to build a strong understanding of how data is gathered, stored, managed, and used across the organization. Beyond this, students have the opportunity to explore new, cutting-edge areas such as information visualization, data mining, and blockchains. Other topics such as information privacy and security, mobile information systems, and artificial intelligence can also be examined in greater depth.
The management information systems minor is open to nonbusiness undergraduate students. Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified. Only 4 credits may be double counted toward another minor.
Required Course
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
MISM 3403 | Data Management for Business | 4 |
Electives
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 12 |
| Information Economics and Game Theory | |
| Blockchain Applications in Finance | |
| Digital Storytelling and Social Media | |
| Project Management | |
| Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies | |
| Information Visualization for Business | |
| Data Mining for Business | |
| Strategic Information Products | |
| Special Topics in Management Information Systems | |
| Technology and Human Values | |
| Global Supply Chain Strategy | |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/managing-human-capital-minor/
The managing human capital minor is designed to deepen students’ knowledge and skills that are necessary to attract, retain, develop, lead, and manage employees. Employees of a firm constitute fundamental resources whose expertise provide economic value to a firm. Thus, the effective management of human capital is instrumental to an organization’s success. Organizations are seeking new ways of managing the challenges they face— globalization, economic changes, rapidly developing technology, union-management relations, and changing demographics in the workplace. Managers and human resources professionals use a wide range of methods for ensuring that their employees and organizations are competitive and high performing.
Managing human capital is a significant component of the strategic management of an organization. The courses offered in the managing human capital minor expose students to the major issues and challenges in leading and managing a global and increasingly diverse workforce in an increasingly digital world.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified. Please note, only one course in the minor may double count in one of the business concentrations.
Organizational Behavior
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
or ORGB 3209 | Organizational Behavior |
Managing Human Capital
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
MGMT 3420 | Managing Human Capital | 4 |
Electives
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
| 8 |
| Negotiating in Business | |
| Power and Influence | |
| Managing Organizational Change and Disruption | |
| Managing a Diverse Workforce | |
| Leadership | |
| The Management Practices of Great Organizations | |
| Workforce Analytics | |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/marketing-analytics-minor/
Marketing analytics comprises the data-driven methods, techniques, and technologies that enable marketers to evaluate the success of their marketing initiatives and campaigns. This minor, aimed at non–D'Amore-McKim students offers the opportunity to learn the cutting-edge skills necessary to harness, process, and analyze data to address modern marketing challenges. It combines programming, quantitative analysis, data-driven consumer insights and predictive modeling into an integrated curriculum that is designed to prepare students for successful careers in marketing analytics and other data-driven business specializations.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Note: Students in D'Amore-McKim or in a combined program with D'Amore McKim are not allowed to take this minor.
Required Courses
Course List Code | Title | Hours |
MKTG 2209 | Introduction to Marketing | 4 |
or MKTG 2201 | Introduction to Marketing |
MKTG 2602 | Quantitative Analysis of Consumer Data | 4 |
MKTG 3402 | Gaining Insights from Consumer Data | 4 |
MKTG 3501 | Marketing Analytics | 4 |
GPA Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA required in all completed courses
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/marketing-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Note: Students in D'Amore-McKim or in a combined program with D'Amore McKim are not allowed to take this minor.
Required Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
MKTG 2201 | Introduction to Marketing | 4 |
or MKTG 2209 | Introduction to Marketing |
Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Marketing and Society | ||
Quantitative Analysis of Consumer Data | ||
Enabling Technologies for Consumer Engagement | ||
Marketing Management | ||
Marketing Research | ||
Gaining Insights from Consumer Data | ||
Marketing Analytics | ||
Brand Management | ||
Undergraduate Research Practicum in Marketing | ||
Sales Management | ||
Understanding the Platform Economy | ||
Managing Customer Engagement in a Service World | ||
Advertising and Brand Promotion | ||
Consumer Behavior | ||
Digital Marketing | ||
New Product Development | ||
International Marketing | ||
Business-to-Business Marketing |
GPA Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA required in all courses completed
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/social-innovation-entrepreneurship-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Note: No more than three courses may be taken from any one college.
Required Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
INNO 2206 | Global Social Enterprise | 4 |
Approved course from Dialogue of Civilizations or another approved program. | 4 |
Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | 4 | |
Social Responsibility of Business in an Age of Inequality | ||
Impact Investing and Social Finance | ||
Integrated Studies in Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship | ||
Complete two of the following: | 8 | |
Global Markets and Local Culture | ||
Global Family Business Leadership | ||
The Nonprofit Sector, Philanthropy, and Social Change | ||
Globalization and International Affairs | ||
International Conflict and Negotiation | ||
International Law | ||
Politics of Developing Nations |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/strategy-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Required Courses
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
STRT 4501 | Strategy in Action | 4 |
or INTB 4202 | Executing Global Strategy | |
or STRT 4509 | Strategic Management | |
Nonbusiness students must complete STRT 4509. |
Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Business Model Design and Innovation | ||
Mergers and Acquisitions | ||
Social Responsibility of Business in an Age of Inequality | ||
Growth, Acquisitions, and Alliances | ||
Competing to Win in Emerging Markets | ||
International Business Management and Environment | ||
The Management Practices of Great Organizations | ||
Management Consulting in Organizations | ||
or BUSN 3110 | The Consulting Environment | |
Marketing Management | ||
Contemporary Topics in Supply Chain Management | ||
Strategic Analysis and Decision Making |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/supply-chain-management-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified. Only four credits may be double counted toward a different minor.
Required Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
SCHM 2301 | Supply Chain and Operations Management | 4 |
Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
(At least 8 semester hours must come from SCHM courses.) | ||
Strategic Cost Analysis for Decision Making | ||
Consulting Operations Growth in SMEs | ||
Blockchain Applications in Finance | ||
Introduction to Industrial Engineering | ||
Logistics and Supply Chain Management | ||
Cultural Aspects of International Business | ||
Negotiating in Business | ||
Project Management | ||
Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies | ||
Fundamentals of Information Analytics | ||
Quantitative Analysis of Consumer Data | ||
Marketing Analytics | ||
Global Supply Chain Strategy | ||
Supply Chain Management for Engineers | ||
Supply Chain Risk Management | ||
Sourcing, Procurement, and Negotiation | ||
Supply Chain Analytics and Emerging Technologies | ||
Logistics and Transportation Management | ||
Managing Healthcare Operations and Supply Chain | ||
Forecasting and Sales and Operations Planning | ||
Sustainable Supply Chain Management | ||
Contemporary Topics in Supply Chain Management |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-minors/sustainable-business-practices-minor/
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified.
Note: No more than three courses may be taken from any one college.
Required Course
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
FINA 2720 | Sustainability in the Business Environment | 4 |
Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete three of the following: | 12 | |
Environmental Engineering: Principles, Technology, and Sustainability | ||
Environmental Economics | ||
Energy Economics | ||
Environmental Science | ||
Dynamic Earth | ||
Responsible Investing | ||
Global Social Enterprise | ||
Social Responsibility of Business in an Age of Inequality | ||
Impact Investing and Social Finance | ||
Integrated Studies in Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship | ||
International Business and Global Social Responsibility | ||
International Business and Global Social Responsibility (Only available to non-business students) | ||
Competing to Win in Emerging Markets | ||
Marketing and Society | ||
Environmental Ethics | ||
Energy, Environment, and Society | ||
Environmental Politics and Policy | ||
Environment and Society |
GPA Requirement
2.000 GPA required in the minor
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/interdisciplinary-studies-bs/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete all courses in one of the following focus areas: | 32–56 | |
Biology | ||
Business Administration | ||
Computer Science | ||
Health Science | ||
Psychology | ||
Public Health |
Restricted Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete 12 semester hours of coursework from one or more subject codes in the focus area chosen above. | 12 | |
Complete 12 semester hours of coursework from subject codes outside of the subject codes of courses in the focus area chosen above. | 12 |
Minor Requirement
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following minors outside of the chosen focus area above. Other minors not listed here may be selected upon approval by the program advisor. | 16–30 | |
Supporting Courses
Some of the following requirements may be fulfilled by courses in the focus area chosen above.
General Electives
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete any courses in the 1000–5999 range, in any subject code, to fulfill total required program hours and fulfill NUpath requirements not met through focus area courses, the restricted electives, the minor, or the supporting courses. |
Major GPA/Grade Requirement
Minimum 2.000 GPA required
Program Requirements
128 total semester hours required
Biology Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete 32 semester hours of coursework preapproved by the program advisor. | 32 |
Business Administration Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ACCT 1201 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
ACCT 2301 | Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors | 4 |
FINA 2201 | Financial Management | 4 |
INNO 2301 | Innovation! | 4 |
INTB 1203 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | 4 |
MGSC 2301 | Business Statistics | 4 |
MISM 2301 | Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies | 4 |
MKTG 2201 | Introduction to Marketing | 4 |
ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
SCHM 2301 | Supply Chain and Operations Management | 4 |
STRT 4501 | Strategy in Action | 4 |
Computer Science Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Computer Science Focus Area Required Courses | ||
CS 1800 | Discrete Structures | 4 |
CS 1802 | Seminar for CS 1800 | 1 |
CS 2500 and CS 2501 | Fundamentals of Computer Science 1 and Lab for CS 2500 | 5 |
CS 2510 and CS 2511 | Fundamentals of Computer Science 2 and Lab for CS 2510 | 5 |
CS 3000 | Algorithms and Data | 4 |
CS 3200 | Introduction to Databases | 4 |
CS 3500 and CS 3501 | Object-Oriented Design and Lab for CS 3500 | 5 |
CS 4500 | Software Development | 4 |
or CS 4530 | Fundamentals of Software Engineering | |
Khoury College Elective | ||
Complete 8 semester hours of upper-division CS, CY, DS, or IS courses that are not already required above. Choose courses from the following ranges: | 8 | |
CS 2502 or higher, except CS 5010 | ||
CY 2000 of higher, except CY 4930 |
Health Science Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
BIOL 1111 and BIOL 1112 | General Biology 1 and Lab for BIOL 1111 | 5 |
BIOL 1113 and BIOL 1114 | General Biology 2 and Lab for BIOL 1113 | 5 |
CHEM 1161 and CHEM 1162 and CHEM 1163 | General Chemistry for Science Majors and Lab for CHEM 1161 and Recitation for CHEM 1161 | 5 |
PHTH 1260 | The American Healthcare System | 4 |
PHTH 1261 | Comparative Healthcare Systems | 4 |
PHTH 2210 | Foundations of Biostatistics | 4 |
PHTH 2300 | Communication Skills for the Health Professions | 4 |
or PHTH 2301 | Communication Skills for the Health Professions—Global | |
PHTH 2350 | Community and Public Health | 4 |
or PHTH 2351 | Community and Public Health - Global | |
PHTH 2515 | Healthcare Policy and Administration | 4 |
PHTH 4120 | Global Perspectives on Discrimination and Health | 4 |
PHTH 4202 | Principles of Epidemiology in Medicine and Public Health | 4 |
PHTH 4540 | Health Education and Program Planning | 4 |
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Public Health Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Public Health Courses | ||
PHTH 1260 | The American Healthcare System | 4 |
PHTH 1261 | Comparative Healthcare Systems | 4 |
PHTH 2210 | Foundations of Biostatistics | 4 |
PHTH 2300 | Communication Skills for the Health Professions | 4 |
or PHTH 2301 | Communication Skills for the Health Professions—Global | |
PHTH 2350 | Community and Public Health | 4 |
or PHTH 2351 | Community and Public Health - Global | |
PHTH 2515 | Healthcare Policy and Administration | 4 |
PHTH 4120 | Global Perspectives on Discrimination and Health | 4 |
PHTH 4202 | Principles of Epidemiology in Medicine and Public Health | 4 |
PHTH 4540 | Health Education and Program Planning | 4 |
PSYC 1101 | Foundations of Psychology | 4 |
Biology Requirement | ||
Select one of the following options: | 8–9 | |
Option 1 | ||
Microbes and Society | ||
or BIOL 1143 | Biology and Society | |
The Human Organism | ||
Option 2 | ||
General Biology 1 and Lab for BIOL 1111 | ||
General Biology 2 and Lab for BIOL 1113 | ||
Social Science Selectives | 7–8 | |
Complete one introductory course as preapproved by the program advisor. | ||
Complete one upper-level course as preapproved by the program advisor. |
Psychology Focus Area
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete 32 semester hours of coursework preapproved by the program advisor. | 32 |
Sample Plan of Study
Four Years, Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 1111 | 4 | Focus area courses (2) | 8 | Focus area course | 4 | Restricted elective | 4 |
Focus area courses (2) | 8 | Restricted elective | 4 | Open elective | 4 | Open elective | 4 |
Restricted elective | 4 | Open elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Focus area course | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | Open elective | 4 | ||
Restricted elective | 4 | Writing-intensive course | 4 | ||||
Minor course | 4 | ||||||
Open elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ENGW 3315 | 4 | Co-op | Co-op | Writing-intensive course | 4 | ||
Focus area course | 4 | Open elective | 4 | ||||
Restricted elective | 4 | ||||||
Minor course | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
Focus area courses (2) | 8 | Capstone | 4 | ||||
Restricted elective | 4 | Focus area courses (2) | 8 | ||||
Minor course | 4 | Minor course | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 128 |
---page-end---
---link: https://catalog.northeastern.edu/undergraduate/business/international-business-bsib/
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
NUpath requirements Differences and Diversity (DD), Natural and Designed World (ND), and Formal and Quantitative Reasoning (FQ) are not explicitly satisfied by required courses in the business curriculum at this time. Students are responsible for satisfying these requirements, and if these are not fulfilled in required major courses, they should use general electives to do so.
BSIB students are required to complete at least a one-semester overseas requirement. The one semester overseas can be fulfilled by a study-abroad or overseas co-op.
Business Core
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ACCT 1201 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
FINA 2201 | Financial Management | 4 |
INNO 2301 | Innovation! | 4 |
MGSC 2301 | Business Statistics | 4 |
MKTG 2201 | Introduction to Marketing | 4 |
ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
International Business Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
All BSIB core courses must be completed at D'Amore-McKim or one of its approved partner universities. | ||
INTB 1205 | The Global Business Environment | 4 |
INTB 2205 | Business Decision Making in Developed Country Environments | 2 |
INTB 2206 | International Business Decision Making in Emerging Markets | 2 |
INTB 3205 | Understanding and Managing Cultural Differences | 4 |
INTB 4202 | Executing Global Strategy | 4 |
Complete one international business elective from the following: | 4 | |
International Financial Management | ||
Special Topics in International Business | ||
International Marketing | ||
Global Supply Chain Strategy |
International Experiential Learning
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete one of the following: | ||
One semester of study-abroad experience | ||
Two Dialogues of Civilization (summer programs) | ||
Two summer traditional study-abroad experiences | ||
One N.U.in international experience or one international Global Scholars semester | ||
Co-op Work Experience Abroad 1 |
- 1
Co-op Work Experience Abroad (COOP 3948) may also be used toward the Business Experiential Learning Requirement.
Concentration
Complete one of the following concentrations. A second concentration is optional. Certain concentrations require additional prerequisites. Please consult your academic advisor to ensure you have met these requirements.
- Accounting
- Accounting and Advisory Services
- Brand Management
- Business Analytics
- Corporate Innovation
- Entrepreneurial Startups
- Family Business
- Finance
- Fintech
- Healthcare Management and Consulting
- Management
- Management Information Systems
- Marketing
- Marketing Analytics
- Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship
- Supply Chain Management
General Education
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
BUSN 1102 | Personal Skill Development for Business | 1 |
BUSN 1103 | Professional Development for Business Co-op | 1 |
ECON 1116 | Principles of Microeconomics | 4 |
Business Experiential Learning
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
Complete at least one of the following experiences: | ||
Co-op Work Experience | ||
Co-op Work Experience--Half Time | ||
Co-op Work Experience Abroad--Half Time | ||
Co-op Work Experience Abroad | ||
Internship Experience (with D’Amore-McKim Cooperative Education Department Approval) | ||
Internship Experience Abroad (with D’Amore-McKim Cooperative Education Department Approval) |
Business GPA Requirement
A minimum 2.000 GPA in business courses is required.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
Sample Plan of Study
Four-Years, Year Three Abroad with Two Co-ops in Spring/Summer 1
Note: Individual study plans will be created with an academic advisor and may vary based on the student's goals. The plan below is a sample only.
- Additional courses may be required in place of open electives. Electives may be moved or used to fulfill language classes. Accounting and advisory services and accounting concentrations require Profit Analysis for Managers and Advisors (ACCT 2301) as a prerequisite. Supply chain management requires Supply Chain and Operations Management (SCHM 2301) as a prerequisite. Management information systems requires Introduction to Information Systems and Digital Technologies (MISM 2301) as a prerequisite.
Year 1 | |||||||
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
ACCT 1201 | 4 | ECON 1116 or INNO 2301 | 4 | FINA 2201 | 4 | Elective | 4 |
BUSN 1102 | 1 | ENGW 1111 | 4 | Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 |
ECON 1116 or INNO 2301 | 4 | INTB 2205 | 2 | ||||
INTB 1205 | 4 | INTB 2206 | 2 | ||||
MGSC 2301 | 4 | MKTG 2201 | 4 | ||||
17 | 16 | 8 | 8 | ||||
Year 2 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
BUSN 1103 | 1 | Co-op | 0 | Co-op | 0 | Elective | 4 |
INTB 3205 | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Concentration course | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
17 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 3 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | Summer 1 | Hours | Summer 2 | Hours |
Semester abroad | 0 | Co-op (may be abroad) | 0 | Co-op (may be abroad) | 0 | Elective | 4 |
Concentration course | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
Elective | 4 | ||||||
16 | 0 | 0 | 8 | ||||
Year 4 | |||||||
Fall | Hours | Spring | Hours | ||||
ENGW 3304 | 4 | INTB 4202 | 4 | ||||
ORGB 3201 | 4 | Concentration course | 4 | ||||
Concentration course | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
Elective | 4 | Elective | 4 | ||||
16 | 16 | ||||||
Total Hours: 130 |
- Concentrations and course offerings may vary by campus and/or by program modality. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for the course availability each term at your campus or within your program modality.
- Certain options within the program may be required at certain campuses or for certain program modalities. Please consult with your advisor or admissions coach for requirements at your campus or for your program modality.
The Bachelor of Science in International Business program is designed to prepare students to be successful managers in an evolving global economy. They develop the skills and knowledge needed to work across cultures and differing business practices, both virtually and face-to-face. Program curriculum examines how a global environment impacts a student's chosen concentration.
Degree-earning exchange students must successfully complete their first two academic years at their home institution and must take part in an integration education experience before transferring to Northeastern University. They are also expected to complete one U.S. domestic cooperative education experience as part of their degree requirements. The total program of study must meet the BSIB degree requirements as listed in this catalog for D’Amore-McKim School of Business students.
Upon graduation, students are able to make an impact from day one at companies that are engaged in business internationally. Graduates can also work in their home country for a company that operates internationally as well as overseas on a foreign assignment.
The BSIB program offers the opportunity to earn a Master of Science in International Management, a Master of Science in Finance, or a Master of Science in Accounting through the PlusOne option.
Complete all courses listed below unless otherwise indicated. Also complete any corequisite labs, recitations, clinicals, or tools courses where specified and complete any additional courses needed beyond specific college and major requirements to satisfy graduation credit requirements.
Universitywide Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the Universitywide Requirements.
NUpath Requirements
All undergraduate students are required to complete the NUpath Requirements.
NUpath requirements Differences and Diversity (DD), Natural and Designed World (ND), and Formal and Quantitative Reasoning (FQ) are not explicitly satisfied by required courses in the business curriculum at this time. Students are responsible for satisfying these requirements, and if these are not fulfilled in required major courses, they should use general electives to do so.
Business Core
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
ACCT 1201 | Financial Accounting and Reporting | 4 |
FINA 2201 | Financial Management | 4 |
INNO 2301 | Innovation! | 4 |
MGSC 2301 | Business Statistics | 4 |
MKTG 2201 | Introduction to Marketing | 4 |
ORGB 3201 | Organizational Behavior | 4 |
International Business Requirements
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
INTB 1205 | The Global Business Environment | 4 |
or INTB 1203 | International Business and Global Social Responsibility | |
INTB 2205 | Business Decision Making in Developed Country Environments | 2 |
INTB 2206 | International Business Decision Making in Emerging Markets | 2 |
INTB 3320 | International Business Management and Environment | 4 |
INTB 4202 | Executing Global Strategy | 4 |
Concentration
Complete one of the following concentrations. Certain concentrations require additional prerequisites. Please consult your academic advisor to ensure you have met these requirements.
- Accounting
- Accounting and Advisory Services
- Brand Management
- Business Analytics
- Corporate Innovation
- Entrepreneurial Startups
- Family Business
- Finance
- Fintech
- Healthcare Management and Consulting
- Management
- Management Information Systems
- Marketing
- Marketing Analytics
- Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship
- Supply Chain Management
General Education
Code | Title | Hours |
---|---|---|
BUSN 1103 | Professional Development for Business Co-op | 1 |
ECON 1116 | Principles of Microeconomics | 4 |
ENGW 1111 | First-Year Writing | 4 |
ENGW 3304 | Advanced Writing in the Business Administration Professions | 4 |
Business Cooperative Education
Complete one cooperative education experience in the U.S.
Business GPA Requirement
A minimum 2.000 GPA in business courses is required.
Program Requirement
128 total semester hours required
---page-end---
